 Beginning troubleshooting and problem analysis This information provides a starting point for analyzing problems. This information is the starting point for diagnosing and repairing servers. From this point, you are guided to the appropriate information to help you diagnose server problems, determine the appropriate repair action, and then perform the necessary steps to repair the server. A system attention light, an enclosure fault light, or a system information light indicates there is a serviceable event (an SRC in the control panel or in one of the serviceable event views) on the system. This information guides you through finding the serviceable event. You can view and print a PDF of this information. You can use problem analysis to gather information that helps you determine the nature of a problem encountered on your system. This information is used to determine if you can resolve the problem yourself or to gather sufficient information to communicate with a service provider and quickly determine the service action that needs to be taken. This is the starting point for repair actions. All repair actions must begin with this procedure. From this point, you are guided to the appropriate information to help you perform the necessary steps to repair the server. The problem determination reference information is provided as an additional resource for problem detection and analysis when you are directed here by your service representative.         
 Beginning problem analysis You can use problem analysis to gather information that helps you determine the nature of a problem encountered on your system. This information is used to determine if you can resolve the problem yourself or to gather sufficient information to communicate with a service provider and quickly determine the service action that needs to be taken. The method of finding and collecting error information depends on the state of the hardware at the time of the failure. This procedure directs you to one of the following places to find error information:The  error logs The operating system's error log The control panel The  The Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI) error logs Light path diagnostics If you are using this information because of a problem with your  (), see . If you are using this information because of a problem with your  (), see . To begin analyzing the problem, complete the following steps: Did you observe an activated LED on your system unit or expansion unit? To view an example of the control panel LEDs, see .  Yes: Continue with the next step. No: Go to step . Was the activated LED on the system unit? Yes: Continue with the next step. No: The activated LED is on an expansion unit that is connected to the system unit. Go to step . Is the activated LED the system information light (designated by an i)?  Yes: Go to step . No: Continue with the next step. Is the activated LED the enclosure fault indicator (designated by an !)? Yes: Use  to identify and service the failing part. Continue with the next step. No: Go to step . The reference code description might provide information or an action that you can take to correct the failure.Use the information center search function to find the reference code details. The information center search function is located in the upper left corner of this information center. Read the reference code description and return here. Do not take any other action at this time.Was there a reference code description that enabled you to resolve the problem? Yes: This ends the procedure.  No: Continue with the next step. In the serviceable event view of the error, record the part number and location code of the first field-replaceable unit (FRU). Other FRUs might be listed but the first FRU has a high probability of resolving the problem. When you have identified the first FRU in the list, contact your service provider to obtain a replacement part. Do not remove power to the unit until you are ready to exchange the FRU with a replacement FRU.  When you have the replacement part and are ready to exchange it, go to . This ends the procedure. Are all system units and expansion units powered on or are you able to power them on? An enclosure is powered on when its green power indicator is on and not flashing.  Yes: Go to step . No: Continue with the next step.  Ensure that the power supplied to the system is adequate. If your processor enclosures and I/O enclosures are protected by an emergency power off (EPO) circuit, check that the EPO switch is not activated.  Verify that all power cables are correctly connected to the electrical outlet. When power is available, the Function/Data display on the control panel is lit.  If you have an uninterruptible power supply, verify that the cables are correctly connected to the system, and that it is functioning.  Power on all processor and I/O enclosures.   Did all enclosures power on?  An enclosure is powered on when its green power indicator is on and not blinking. In a single-enclosure server with a redundant service processor, a progress code displays on the control (operator) panel several seconds after ac power is first applied.  This progress code remains on the control panel for 1-2 minutes, then the progress code is updated every 20-30 seconds as the system powers on. In a multiple-enclosure server with a redundant service processor, a progress code does not display on the control (operator) panel until 1-2 minutes after ac power is first applied.  After the first progress code displays, the progress code is updated every 20-30 seconds as the system unit powers on.  Yes: This ends the procedure. No: Continue with the next step.  Is the failing hardware managed by a ?  Yes: Go to step . No: Continue with the next step. Is your system being managed by the ?  Yes: Go to step . No: Continue with the next step. Refer to the appropriate procedure:If you are having a problem with an AIX® or Linux system unit, go to . If you are having a problem with an  system unit, go to . If you are having a problem with an  switch, go to .  If an operating system was running at the time of the failure, information about the failure is found in the operating system's serviceable event view unless the failure prevented the operating system from doing so. If that operating system is no longer running, attempt to reboot it before answering the following question.Was an operating system running at the time of the failure and is the operating system running now? Yes: Go to step . No: Continue with the next step. Details about errors that occur when an operating system is not running or is now not accessible can be found in the control panel or in the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI).   Do you choose to look for error details using ASMI?   Yes: Go to step . No: Continue with the next step.  At the control panel, complete the following steps.Press the increment or decrement button until the number 11 is displayed in the upper-left corner of the display.  Press  to display the contents of function 11.  Look in the upper-right corner for a reference code.   Is there a reference code displayed on the control panel in function 11?     Yes: Continue with the next step. No: Contact your hardware service provider.  The reference code description might provide information or an action that you can take to correct the failure.  Go to the  and type the reference code in the field provided. Read the reference code description and return here. Do not take any other action at this time.Was there a reference code description that enabled you to resolve the problem?   Yes: This ends the procedure. No: Continue with the next step.  Service is required to resolve the error. Collect as much error data as possible and record it. You and your service provider will develop a corrective action to resolve the problem based on the following guidelines:  If a field-replaceable unit (FRU) location code is provided in the serviceable event view or control panel, that location should be used to determine which FRU to replace. If an isolation procedure is listed for the reference code in the reference code lookup information, include it as a corrective action even if it is not listed in the serviceable event view or control panel. If any FRUs are marked for block replacement, replace all FRUs in the block replacement group at the same time. To find error details: Press  to display the contents of function 14. If data is available in function 14, the reference code has a FRU list.   Record the information in functions 11 through 20 on the control panel. Contact your service provider and report the reference code and other information.  This ends the procedure. Is your system being managed by the Integrated Virtualization Manager?  If you install the Virtual I/O Server on a system unit that is not managed by a , then the Integrated Virtualization Manager is enabled.    Yes: Go to step . No: Continue with the next step.  If you are having a problem with  or  switch, go to the appropriate procedure. If you are having a problem with an AIX or Linux system unit, go to . If you are having a problem with an  system unit, go to . If you are having a problem with an  switch, go to .   This ends the procedure.   Is the  functional and connected to the hardware?  Yes: Continue with the next step. No: Start the  and attach it to the system unit. Then return here and continue with the next step.  On  that is used to manage the system unit, complete the following steps:   If you are unable to locate the reported problem, and there is more than one open problem near the time of the reported failure, use the earliest problem in the log.  For HMC:In the navigation area, click . The Manage Serviceable Events - Select Serviceable Events window is shown. In the Event Criteria area, for Serviceable Event Status, select . For all other criteria, select , then click .  For SDMC:On the Service and Support Manager page, select  from the  list box. The Serviceable Problems pane displays a filtered list of only those problems associated with systems that are monitored by the Service and Support Manager. Click the problem listed in the  column that you want to work with. This step displays the properties of the selected problem. Scroll through the log and verify that there is a problem with the status of Open to correspond with the failure.    Do you find a serviceable event, or an open problem near the time of the failure?    Yes: Continue with the next step. No: Contact your hardware service provider. If you believe that there might be a problem with the  switch, go to . The reference code description might provide information or an action that you can take to correct the failure. Go to the  and type the reference code in the field provided. Read the reference code description and return here. Do not take any other action at this time.Was there a reference code description that enabled you to resolve the problem? Yes: This ends the procedure.  No: Continue with the next step. Service is required to resolve the error. Collect as much error data as possible and record it. You and your service provider will develop a corrective action to resolve the problem based on the following guidelines:  If a FRU location code is provided in the serviceable event view or control panel, that location should be used to determine which FRU to replace. If an isolation procedure is listed for the reference code in the reference code lookup information, include it as a corrective action even if it is not listed in the serviceable event view or control panel. If any FRUs are marked for block replacement, replace all FRUs in the block replacement group at the same time. From the Repair Serviceable Event window, complete the following steps: Record the problem management record (PMR) number for the problem if one is listed. Select the serviceable event from the list. Select Selected and View Details. Record the reference code and FRU list found in the Serviceable Event Details. If a PMH number was found for the problem on the Serviceable Event Overview panel, the problem has already been reported. If there was no PMH number for the problem, contact your service provider.  This ends the procedure. Log on to the Integrated Virtualization Manager interface if not already logged on. In the Integrated Virtualization Manager Navigation bar, select Manage Serviceable Events (under Service Management). Scroll through the log and verify that there is a problem with status as Open to correspond with the failure. Do you find a serviceable event, or an open problem near the time of the failure? Yes: Continue with the next step. No: Go to step .  The reference code description might provide information or an action that you can take to correct the failure. Go to the  and type the reference code in the field provided. Read the reference code description and return here. Do not take any other action at this time. Was there a reference code description that enabled you to resolve the problem? Yes: This ends the procedure.  No: Continue with the next step.  Service is required to resolve the error. Collect as much error data as possible and record it. You and your service provider will develop a corrective action to resolve the problem based on the following guidelines:  If a FRU location code is provided in the serviceable event view or control panel, that location should be used to determine which FRU to replace. If an isolation procedure is listed for the reference code in the reference code lookup information, it should be included as a corrective action even if it is not listed in the serviceable event view or control panel. If any FRUs are marked for block replacement, all FRUs in the block replacement group should be replaced at the same time. From the Selected Serviceable Events table, complete the following steps.Record the reference code. Select the serviceable event. Select View Associated FRUs. Contact your service provider  This ends the procedure.  On the console connected to the ASMI, complete the following steps.  If you are unable to locate the reported problem, and there is more than one open problem near the time of the reported failure, use the earliest problem in the log.  Log in with a user ID that has an authority level as general, administrator, or authorized service provider. In the navigation area, expand  and click . If log entries exist, a list of error and event log entries is displayed in a summary view. Scroll through the log under  and verify that there is a problem to correspond with the failure. For more detailed information on the ASMI, see .   Do you find a serviceable event, or an open problem near the time of the failure?    Yes: Continue with the next step. No: Contact your hardware service provider.  The reference code description might provide information or an action that you can take to correct the failure. Go to the  and type the reference code in the field provided. Read the reference code description and return here. Do not take any other action at this time. Was there a reference code description that enabled you to resolve the problem? Yes: This ends the procedure. No: Continue with the next step. Service is required to resolve the error. Collect as much error data as possible and record it. You and your service provider will develop a corrective action to resolve the problem based on the following guidelines:  If a FRU location code is provided in the serviceable event view or control panel, that location should be used to determine which FRU to replace. If an isolation procedure is listed for the reference code in the reference code lookup information, include it as a corrective action even if it is not listed in the serviceable event view or control panel. If any FRUs are marked for block replacement, replace all FRUs in the block replacement group at the same time. From the Error Event Log view, complete the following steps:Record the reference code. Select the corresponding check box on the log and click . Record the error details. Contact your service provider.  This ends the procedure. You can use this procedure to find information about a problem with your server hardware that is running the  operating system.  You can use this procedure to find information about a problem with your server hardware that is running the  operating system.  You can use problem analysis to gather information that helps you determine the nature of a problem encountered on your system. Light path diagnostics is a simplified approach for repair actions on  hardware that provides fault indicators to identify parts that need to be replaced. Use the problem reporting form to record information about your server that will assist you in problem analysis.  Parent topic:          
 Managing the HMC This topic helps users to understand how to use the Hardware Management Console (HMC), describes the tasks you can use on the console, and describes how to navigate using the web-based user interface. Read about new or significantly changed information in Managing the HMC since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF file of this information. This section briefly describes some of the concepts and functions of the Hardware Management Console (HMC) and introduces the user interface that is used for accessing those functions.  You can use the web-based user interface to perform tasks on the Hardware Management Console (HMC) or on your managed resources. The roles discussed in this section refer to HMC users; operating systems running on logical partitions has its own set of users and roles. Systems Management displays tasks to manage servers, logical partitions, and frames. Use these tasks to set up, configure, view current status, troubleshoot, and apply solutions for servers.  Systems Management displays tasks you can perform to manage servers, logical partitions, and frames. Use these tasks to set up, configure, view current status, troubleshoot, and apply solutions for partitions.  Set up, configure, view current status, troubleshoot, and apply solutions for frames.  Systems Management for  displays  tasks that you can perform. Display the tasks used to record or import specifications for logical partitions, partition profiles, or hardware specifications on a chosen system. The tasks that are available on the Hardware Management Console (HMC) for the HMC Management tasks are described.  The tasks that are available on the HMC for the Service Management tasks are described.  Display tasks to manage Licensed Internal Code (LIC) on your HMC, managed system, power subsystem, or I/O adapters. Connect to and use the HMC remotely. The Customizable Data Replication service provides the ability to configure a set of Hardware Management Consoles (HMCs) to automatically replicate any changes to certain types of data so that the configured set of HMCs automatically keep this data synchronized without manual intervention.         
 What's new in Managing the HMC Read about new or significantly changed information in Managing the HMC since the previous update of this topic collection. This topic highlights some of the new features and functions on the HMC. For more information, click HMC Readme from the HMC workplace Welcome pane. April 2014The following updates have been made to the content: As of Version 7.9, or later, the systems management for servers supports single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) logical ports. See the updated  topic. As of Version 7.9, or later, systems management for partition supports SR-IOV logical ports. See the new  topic and the updated  topic. October 2013The following updates have been made to the content: As of Version 7.8, or later, the HMC server supports the Dynamic Platform Optimization capability. See the updated  topic. As of Version 7.8, or later, the schedule operation for server supports monitoring and performing the Dynamic Platform Optimization capability. See the updated  topic. As of Version 7.8, or later, the HMC server supports the Systems Management for  functions. See the new  topic. March 2013The following updates have been made to the content: As of Version 7.7, or later, you can  install a Virtual I/O Server (VIOS) on a logical partition from an HMC by using a DVD, a saved image, or a Network Installation Management (NIM) server. See the updated  topic. As of Version 7.7, or later, you can store the VIOS images from a DVD, a saved image, or a Network Installation Management (NIM) server on the HMC. See the new  topic. As of Version 7.7, or later, you can enable the Virtual Server Network (VSN) on POWER7® processor-based servers. See the updated  topic. The following topics were updated for upgrading the Licensed Internal Code (LIC) by using the HMC: October 2012The following updates have been made to the content: With HMC Version 7.6, or later, you can view the  for the selected POWER7 processor-based servers. The  topic was added. With HMC Version 7.6, or later, you can set the processing units to the lowest supported value of 0.05 processor per virtual processor. See the updated  topic. With HMC Version 7.6, or later, you can restore critical backup data by using a Secure Shell File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) server. See the updated  topic. HMC Version 7.6 supports Microsoft Internet Explorer 6.0 - Microsoft Internet Explorer 9.0, and Mozilla Firefox Version 4 - Mozilla Firefox Version 10. See the updated  topic. October 2011The following updates have been made to the content: With HMC Version 7.4, or later, you can enable the Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) on POWER7 processor-based servers. The  topic was updated for the VTPM feature. May 2011The following updates have been made to the content: With the HMC Version 7.2, or later, you can suspend a logical partition with its operating system and applications, and store the virtual server state to persistent storage. You can resume the operation of the logical partition on the same system. The  topic is new for logical partitions with the partition suspend and resume capability. With the HMC Version 7.2, or later, the system administrators can set password restrictions by activating the enhanced password policy. You can also create and activate the user-defined policy to set password restrictions. For more information, see . September 2010Added information for the IBM® Power 710 Express and IBM Power 730 Express (8231-E2B), IBM Power 720 Express (8202-E4B), IBM Power 740 Express (8205-E6B), and IBM Power 795 (9119-FHB) servers. February 2010Added information for  servers that contain the  processor. Parent topic:          
 Properties Displays the selected managed system's properties. This information is useful in system and partition planning and resource allocation.   These properties include the following tabs:General The General tab displays the system's name, serial number, model and type, state, attention led state, service processor version, maximum number of partitions, assigned service partition (if designated), and power off policy information. Processor The Processor tab displays information about the managed system's processors including installed processing units, deconfigured processing units, available processing units, configurable processing units, minimum number of processing units per virtual processor and maximum number of shared processor pools.  Memory The Memory tab displays information about the managed system's memory including installed memory, deconfigured memory, available memory, configurable memory, memory region size, current memory available for partition usage, and system firmware current memory. The tab also describes the maximum number of memory pools. I/O The I/O tab displays the physical I/O resources for the managed system. The assignment of I/O slots and partition, the adaptor-type, and the slot LP limit information are displayed. The physical I/O resources information is grouped by units. The Slot column displays the physical I/O properties of each resource. The I/O Pool column displays all of the I/O pools found in the system and the partitions that are participating in the pools.  The Owner column displays who currently owns the physical I/O. The value of this column can be any of the following values:When an single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) adapter is in the shared mode,  is displayed in this column. When an SR-IOV adapter is in the dedicated mode,  is displayed when the adapter is not assigned to any partition as a dedicated physical I/O.  When an SR-IOV adapter is in the dedicated mode, the logical partition name is displayed when the adapter is assigned to any logical partition as a dedicated physical I/O. The Slot LP Limit column displays the number of logical ports supported by slot or adapter in SR-IOV shared mode. Migration If your managed system is partition-migration capable, the Migration tab displays partition migration information. Power-On Parameters The Power-On Parameters tab allows you to change the power-on parameters for the next restart by changing the values in the Next fields. These changes will only be valid for the next managed system restart. Capabilities The Capabilities tab displays the runtime capabilities of this server. You can verify that the server supports Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM), Virtual Server Network (VSN), Dynamic Platform Optimization (DPO), and . Advanced The Advanced tab displays huge page memory capabilities on the managed system, including available huge page memory, configurable huge page memory, current page size, and current maximum huge page memory. To change memory allocation on systems with huge page table support, set the Requested huge page memory (in pages) field to the desired memory. To change the requested value for huge page memory, the system must be powered off. The Barrier Synchronization Register (BSR) option displays array information. The Processor Performance option displays the TurboCore mode and the System Partition Processor Limit (SPPL). You can set the next TurboCore mode and the next SPPL value. The SPPL applies to both dedicated processor partitions and shared processor partitions. The Memory Mirroring option displays the current mirroring mode and the current system firmware mirroring status. You can set the next mirroring mode. You can also launch the memory optimization tool. You can view the VTPM settings. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Systems Management for Servers Systems Management displays tasks to manage servers, logical partitions, and frames. Use these tasks to set up, configure, view current status, troubleshoot, and apply solutions for servers.  To perform these tasks, see . The tasks listed in the taskpad change as selections are made in the work area. The context is always listed at the top of the taskpad in the format Task: Object. These tasks are listed when a managed system is selected.  Displays the selected managed system's properties. This information is useful in system and partition planning and resource allocation.  Use the Update Password task to update HMC access and Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI) passwords on the managed system. Operations contains the tasks for operating managed systems. Configuration contains the tasks for configuring your managed system and partitions. You can view the HMC connection status to service processors or frames, reset those connections, connect another HMC to the selected managed system, or disconnect another HMC. Display information about the hardware attached to a selected managed system.  Perform a guided update of managed system, power, or I/O Licensed Internal Code. Problem Analysis on the HMC automatically detects error conditions and reports to you any problem that requires service to repair it.  Activate inactive processors or memory that are installed on your managed server. Parent topic:          
 Launching tasks for managed objects After you have chosen the objects to work with, you are ready to perform the appropriate tasks on them. Learn about how to launch a task for your selected managed objects. Appropriate tasks for a selected object are listed in the taskpad, in context menus, and in the Tasks menu.If a particular task cannot be performed on an object, the task will not display. TaskpadThis view contains available tasks for selected managed objects. The taskpad is displayed below the work pane when you have selected an object you want to work with.   Resize the taskpad by moving the mouse pointer over the border that separates the work pane from the taskpad. Optionally display the taskpad by using the  task. For more information, see . Expand or collapse all the task categories in the taskpad by selecting  or  from the taskpad heading. The tasks contained in this view meet the following characteristics: Tasks are available for the currently selected target objects in the navigation pane or the work pane table view. If multiple objects are selected in the work pane table, the intersection of the selected objects' tasks is displayed. If there are no selections in the table, tasks are displayed for the object selected in the navigation pane. Tasks available are limited by the role of the user who is currently logged in. The following is an example of using the taskpad method: Select a server in the work pane table (click the  column). Select a task group from the taskpad (click the expand button or click the group name).  After you have expanded the task groups, those groups remain open so that you can repeatedly open other tasks without having to reopen the task groups again. Select a task that is displayed under the task group that you want to perform on that server. The task window opens.   Context MenuThe Context menu lists the task groups appropriate for the selected object. Context menus are available only for table selections. For example, in the Select column of the Servers Work pane table, select the object you want to work with. The Context menu button (double right arrows) appears next to the object name you have selected. Click the button and the task groups menu appears for that particular object. Then select a task. If more than one object is selected, the tasks that appear in the Context menu(s) apply to all selections.  Tasks menuThe tasks menu is displayed on the table toolbar.  The tasks menu is available only for table selections. For example, in the  column of the Servers work pane table, select the object you want to work with. Click  for the list of the applicable task groups for the selected objects in the table. Select a task group, then select a task to open for the object. If more than one object is selected, the tasks that are displayed in the tasks menu apply to all selections.  Parent topic:          
 Change User Interface Settings Customize settings that control how the HMC interface appears. You can display or hide certain user interface components and icons, display or hide specific navigation nodes, and determine whether or not to save user interface settings changes.  User interface changes apply to the currently logged on user ID only. To change user interface settings, do the following: From the HMC Management work pane, click . Optionally, you can also open the task by clicking on the logged on user name link displayed in the task bar below the banner. All items are selected in the Change User Interface Settings window by default.  Click  or  for the change to take affect.  If you select , any customization done to the following items are saved when the user logs off:Displayed user interface components, such as the banner and taskpad Displayed navigation and work pane icons Displayed nodes in the navigation pane Table view customization, such as filters, sorts, column sizing, ordering, and visibility settings To restore all of the user interface settings to the original defaults, click . For additional information for changing the user interface settings, use the online Help. Parent topic:          
 HMC Management - Operations These tasks describe the tasks you can perform to operate your HMC.  View a record of system events occurring on the HMC. System events are individual activities that indicate when processes occur, begin and end, succeed or fail. This task enables you to shut down (power off the console) or to restart the console. Create a schedule for certain operations to be performed on the HMC itself without operator assistance. This task formats a , diskette, or USB 2.0 Flash Drive Memory Key. This task backs up (or archives) the data that is stored on your HMC hard disk that is critical to support HMC operations.  This task is used to select a remote repository for restoring critical backup data for the HMC. This task uses a wizard to save upgrade data to selected media. This data consists of files that were created or customized while running the current software level. Saving this data to selected media is performed prior to an HMC software upgrade. This task allows you to view the current network information for the HMC and to change network settings. Display network diagnostic information for the console’s TCP/IP connection. Send an echo request to a remote host. Display a tree view of the network nodes known to this Hardware Management Console. Examples of such nodes are managed systems, logical partitions, storage, and other Hardware Management Consoles.  View information about using the HMC. When you enable this feature, a different fact or tip is displayed each time you log in. View the Licensed Internal Code that you have agreed to for this HMC.  Customize settings that control how the HMC interface appears. You can display or hide certain user interface components and icons, display or hide specific navigation nodes, and determine whether or not to save user interface settings changes. Change the time and date of the battery-operated HMC clock and add or remove time servers for the Network Time Protocol (NTP) service.  This task uses a wizard to set up your system and HMC.  Parent topic:          
 View HMC Events View a record of system events occurring on the HMC. System events are individual activities that indicate when processes occur, begin and end, succeed or fail. To view HMC events, do the following: In the HMC Management work pane, click . Use the menu bar to change to a different time range, or to change how the events display in the summary. You can also use the table icons or the  menu on the table toolbar to display different variations of the table. When you are done viewing the events, select  on the menu bar, then click . Use the online Help for additional information about viewing HMC events. Parent topic:          
 Shut Down or Restart This task enables you to shut down (power off the console) or to restart the console. Open the Shut Down or Restart task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Shut Down or Restart window, you can: Select Restart the HMC to automatically restart the HMC once the shut down has occurred. Do not select Restart the HMC if you do not want to automatically restart the HMC. Click OK to proceed with the shut down, otherwise click Cancel to exit the task. Use the online Help if you need additional information about shutting down or restarting the HMC. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Import Service Key Before you can import a service key file into an HMC, a service key file must first be created on the Kerberos server for the HMC host. The service key file contains the host principal of the HMC client, for example, host/example.com@EXAMPLE.COM. In addition to KDC Authentication, the host service key file is used to enable password-less SSH (Secure Shell) login using GSSAPI.  For MIT Kerberos V5 *nix distributions, create a service key file by running the kadmin utility on a KDC and using the ktadd command. Other Kerberos implementations may require a different process to create a service key. To import a service key: Open the KDC Configuration task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Actions drop down list, select Import Service Key. Select from one of the following:Local - The service key must be located on removable media currently mounted on the HMC. You must use this option locally at the HMC (not remotely), and you must mount the removable media to the HMC before using this option. Specify the full path of the service key file on the media.  Remote - The service key must be located on a remote site available to the HMC via secure FTP. You can import a service key file from any remote site that has SSH (Secure Shell) installed and running. Specify the hostname of the site, a user ID and password for the site, and the full path of the service key file on the remote site. Click OK. Implementation of the service key file will not take effect until the HMC is rebooted. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 KDC Configuration View the key distribution center (KDC) servers that are used by this HMC for Kerberos remote authentication.  From this task you can do the following:View existing KDC servers Modify existing KDC server parameters including realm, ticket lifetime, and clock skew Add and configure a KDC server on the HMC Remove a KDC server Import a service key Remove a service key Kerberos is a network authentication protocol designed to provide strong authentication for client/server applications by using secret-key cryptography. Under Kerberos, a client (generally either a user or a service) sends a request for a ticket to the KDC. The KDC creates a ticket-granting ticket (TGT) for the client, encrypts it using the client's password as the key, and sends the encrypted TGT back to the client. The client then attempts to decrypt the TGT, using its password. If the client successfully decrypts the TGT (i.e., if the client gave the correct password), it keeps the decrypted TGT, which indicates proof of the client's identity. The tickets have a time availability period. Kerberos requires the clocks of the involved hosts to be synchronized. If the HMC clock is not synchronized with the clock of KDC server, authentication will fail. A Kerberos realm is an administrative domain, site, or logical network that uses Kerberos remote authentication. Each realm uses a master Kerberos database that is stored on a KDC server and that contains information about the users and services for that realm. A realm might also have one or more slave KDC servers, which store read-only copies of the master Kerberos database for that realm. To prevent KDC spoofing, the HMC can be configured to use a service key to authenticate to the KDC. Service key files are also known as keytabs. Kerberos verifies the TGT requested was issued by the same KDC that issued the service key file for the HMC. Before you can import a service key file into an HMC, you must generate a service key for the host principal of the HMC client.  Note: For MIT Kerberos V5 *nix distributions, create a service key file by running the kadmin utility on a KDC and using the ktadd command. Other Kerberos implementations may require a different process to create a service key. You can import a service key file from one of these sources: Removable media that is currently mounted to the HMC, such as optical discs or USB Mass Storage devices. You must use this option locally at the HMC (not remotely), and you must mount the removable media to the HMC before using this option. A remote site using secure FTP. You can import a service-key file from any remote site that has SSH installed and running.     To use Kerberos remote authentication for this HMC, complete the following:You must enable the Network Time Protocol (NTP) service on the HMC and set the HMC and the KDC servers to synchronize time with the same NTP server. You can enable the NTP service on the HMC by accessing the  task under HMC Management.  You must set the user profile of each remote user to use Kerberos remote authentication instead of local authentication. A user that is set to use Kerberos remote authentication will always use Kerberos remote authentication, even when the user logs onto the HMC locally.  You do not need to set all users to use Kerberos remote authentication. You can set some user profiles so that the users can use local authentication only. Use of a service key file is optional. Before using a service key file, you must import it into the HMC. If a service key is installed on the HMC, realm names must be equivalent to the network domain name. The following is an example of creating the service key file on a Kerberos server using the kadmin.local command assuming the HMC hostname is hmc1, the DNS domain is example.com, and the Kerberos realm name is EXAMPLE.COM:  # kadmin_local kadmin.local:  ktadd -k /etc/krb5.keytab host/hmc1.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM Using the Kerberos ktutil on the Kerberos server, verify the service key file contents. The output should look like the following:# ktutil  ktutil:  rkt /etc/krb5.keytab  ktutil:  l  slot KVNO Principal ---- ---- ---------------------------------------------------------------------    1    9      host/hmc1.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM     2    9      host/hmc1.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM  The HMC Kerberos configuration can be modified for SSH (Secure Shell) login without a password using GSSAPI. For remote login without a password through Kerberos to an HMC, configure the HMC to use a service key. Once the configuration is completed use kinit -f  principal to obtain forwardable credentials on a remote Kerberos client machine. Then issue the following command to log in to the HMC without having to enter a password:  $ ssh -o PreferredAuthentications=gssapi-with-mic user@host Display existing KDC servers on the HMC. Add a Key Distribution Center (KDC) server to this HMC. Kerberos authentication on the HMC remains enabled until all KDC servers are removed. Before you can import a service key file into an HMC, a service key file must first be created on the Kerberos server for the HMC host. The service key file contains the host principal of the HMC client, for example, host/example.com@EXAMPLE.COM. In addition to KDC Authentication, the host service key file is used to enable password-less SSH (Secure Shell) login using GSSAPI. Parent topic:          
 Change Date and Time Change the time and date of the battery-operated HMC clock and add or remove time servers for the Network Time Protocol (NTP) service.  Use this task in the following situations: If the battery is replaced in the HMC. If your system is physically moved to a different time zone.  The time setting will adjust automatically for daylight saving time in the time zone you select. To change the date and time, do the following: In the HMC Management work pane, click . Click the  tab.  Enter the date and time information. Click . To change the time server information, do the following: In the HMC Management work pane, click . Click the  tab.  Provide the appropriate information for the time server. Click . If you need additional information for changing the date and time of the HMC or for adding or removing time servers for the Network Time Protocol (NTP) service, use the online Help. Parent topic:          
 View KDC Server Display existing KDC servers on the HMC. To view existing KDC Servers on your HMC, In the  work pane, click . If no servers exist and NTP has not yet been enabled, a warning panel message displays. Enable the NTP service on the HMC and configure a new KDC server as desired. Parent topic:          
 Modify KDC Server To modify existing KDC server parameters, do the following: In the HMC Management pane, click the KDC Configuration task. Select a KDC Server. Select a value to modify:Realm. A realm is an authentication administrative domain. Normally, realms always appear in upper case letters. It is good practice to create a realm name that is the same as your DNS domain (in upper case letters). A user belongs to a realm if and only if the user shares a key with the authentication server of that realm. Realm names must be equivalent to the network domain name if a service key file is installed on the HMC. Ticket Lifetime. Ticket lifetime sets the lifetime for credentials. The format is an integer number followed by one of s seconds, m minutes, h hours, or d days. Enter a Kerberos lifetime string such as 2d4h10m.  Clock skew. Clock skew sets the maximum allowable amount of clock skew between the HMC and the KDC server before Kerberos considers messages invalid. The format is an integer number that represents number of seconds. Click OK. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Add KDC server Add a Key Distribution Center (KDC) server to this HMC. To add a new KDC server, do the following:In the  work pane click . From the  drop down list, select . Enter the host name or IP address of the KDC server. Enter the KDC server realm.  Click OK. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Remove KDC server Kerberos authentication on the HMC remains enabled until all KDC servers are removed. To remove a KDC server:Open the KDC Configuration task from the HMC Management work pane. Select the KDC server from the list. From the Actions drop down list, select Remove KDC Server. Click OK. Parent topic:          
 Remove Service Key To remove the service key from the HMC: Open the KDC Configuration task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Actions drop down list, select Remove Service Key. Click OK. You must reboot the HMC after removing the service key. Failure to reboot may cause login errors. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 HMC Management - Administration These tasks describe the administration tasks you can perform using your HMC. This task allows you to change your existing password used for logging onto the HMC. A password verifies your user ID and your authority to log in to the console.  Manage your system users that log on to the HMC. A user profile is a combination of a user ID, server authentication method, permissions, and a text description. Permissions represent the authority levels assigned to the user profile for the objects the user has permission to access. Use this task to define and customize user roles. Display the logged on users and the tasks they are running. Use this task to manage the certificates used on your HMC. It provides the capability of getting information on the certificates used on the console. This task allows you to create a new certificate for the console, change the property values of the certificate, and work with existing and archived certificates or signing certificates. View the key distribution center (KDC) servers that are used by this HMC for Kerberos remote authentication. Configure your HMC so that it uses LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) authentication. This task is used to enable remote command execution using the ssh facility. A Remote Virtual Terminal connection is a terminal connection to a logical partition from another remote HMC. Use this task to enable Remote Virtual Terminal access for remote clients. Open a command line session. This task sets the language and location for the HMC. After you select a language, you can select a locale associated with that language.  This task allows you to customize the welcome message or to display a warning message that appears on the Welcome window before you log onto the HMC. You can use this text to notify users of certain corporate policies or security restrictions applying to the system. This task enables or disables customized data replication. Customized data replication allows another HMC to obtain customized console data from or send data to this HMC. Add or remove operating environment installation resources for your HMC. You can enforce password requirements for locally authenticated users by using the  (). The enhanced password policy function allows the system administrator to set password restrictions. The enhanced password policy applies to the systems that have  installed. As of Version 7.7, or later, you can store the Virtual I/O Server (VIOS) images from a DVD, a saved image, or a Network Installation Management (NIM) server on the HMC. The stored VIOS images can be used for VIOS installation. You must be an HMC super administrator (hmcsuperadmin) to install the VIOS image. Parent topic:          
 Change User Password This task allows you to change your existing password used for logging onto the HMC. A password verifies your user ID and your authority to log in to the console.  To change your password: Open the Change User Password task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Change User Password window specify your current password, specify a new password you want to use, and respecify the new password to confirm in the fields provided. Click OK to proceed with the changes.  Use the online Help if you need additional information for changing your password. Parent topic:          
 Manage User Profiles and Access Manage your system users that log on to the HMC. A user profile is a combination of a user ID, server authentication method, permissions, and a text description. Permissions represent the authority levels assigned to the user profile for the objects the user has permission to access. Users can be authenticated using local authentication on the HMC, by using Kerberos remote authentication, or by using LDAP authentication. For more information on setting up Kerberos authentication on the HMC, see . For more information about LDAP authentication, see .  If you are using local authentication, the user ID and password are used to verify a user’s authorization to log on the HMC. The user ID must start with an alphabetic character and consist of 1 to 32 characters. The password has the following rules:  Must begin with an alphanumeric character. Must contain at least seven characters, however, this limit may be changed by your system administrator. The characters should be standard 7-bit ASCII characters. Valid characters to use for the password can be: A-Z, a-z, 0-9 and special characters (~ ! @ # $ % ^ & * ( ) _ + - = { } [ ] \ : " ; ’). If you are using Kerberos authentication, specify a Kerberos remote user ID. The user profile includes managed resource roles and task roles that are assigned to the user. The managed resource roles assign permissions for a managed object or group of objects and the task roles define the access level for a user to perform on a managed object or group of objects. You can choose from a list of available default managed resource roles, task roles, or customized roles created by using the Manage Task and Resource Roles task.  See  for a listing of all the HMC tasks and the predefined default user IDs that can perform each task. The default managed resource roles include: All System Resources The default task roles include:  hmcservicerep (Service Representative) hmcviewer (Viewer) hmcoperator (Operator) hmcpe (Product Engineer) hmcsuperadmin (Super Administrator). To add or customize a user profile, do the following: Open the Manage User Profiles and Access task from the HMC Management work pane. Complete one of the following steps:From the User Profiles window, if you are creating a new user ID, point to User on the menu bar and when its menu is displayed, click Add. The Add User window is displayed.  From the User Profiles window, if the user ID already exists in the window, select the user ID from the list, and then point to User on the menu bar and when its menu is displayed, click Modify. The Modify User window is displayed.   Complete or change the fields in the window, click OK when you are done.  Use the online Help if you need additional information for creating, modifying, copying, or removing a user profile. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Configuring the HMC so that it uses LDAP authentication Configure your HMC so that it uses LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) authentication.  Before you configure the HMC so that it uses LDAP authentication, you must ensure that a working network connection exists between the HMC and the LDAP servers.  To configure your HMC so that it uses LDAP authentication, do the following: Next, you must configure each remote user's profile so that it uses LDAP remote authentication instead of local authentication. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Manage Task and Resource Roles Use this task to define and customize user roles.  Predefined roles (default roles) cannot be modified. A user role is a collection of authorizations. A user role can be created to define the set of tasks allowed for a given class of user (task roles) or it can be created to define the set of managed objects that are manageable for a user (managed resource roles). Once you have defined or customized the user roles you can use the Manage User Profiles and Access task to create new users with their own permissions.  The predefined managed resource roles include: All System Resources  The predefined task roles include:  hmcservicerep (Service Representative) hmcviewer (Viewer) hmcoperator (Operator) hmcpe (Product Engineer) hmcsuperadmin (Super Administrator) To customize managed resource roles or task roles: Open the Manage Task and Resource Roles task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Manage Task and Resource Roles window, select either Managed Resource Roles or Task Roles. To add a role, click Edit from the menu bar, then click Add to create a new role.or To copy, remove, or modify an existing role, select the object you want to customize, click Edit from the menu bar, then click Copy, Remove, or Modify. Click Exit when you are have completed the task. Use the online Help to get additional information for customizing managed resource roles and task roles.  Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Manage Users and Tasks Display the logged on users and the tasks they are running. In the HMC Management work pane, click . In the Manage Users and Tasks window, the following information displays:  User you are logged in as Time you logged in Number of tasks running Your access location Information about tasks that are running:  Task ID Task name Targets (if any) Session ID Choose to log off or disconnect from a session that is currently running by selecting the session from the Users  list, then click  or .  Alternately, you can choose to switch to another task or end a task by selecting the task from the  list, then click  or . When you have completed this task, click . Parent topic:          
 Manage Certificates Use this task to manage the certificates used on your HMC. It provides the capability of getting information on the certificates used on the console. This task allows you to create a new certificate for the console, change the property values of the certificate, and work with existing and archived certificates or signing certificates. All remote browser access to the HMC must use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) encryption. With SSL encryption required for all remote access to the HMC, a certificate is required to provide the keys for this encryption. The HMC provides a self-signed certificate that allows this encryption to occur.  To manage your certificates: Open the Manage Certificates task from the HMC Management work pane. Use the menu bar from the Manage Certificates window for the actions you want to take with the certificates: To create a new certificate for the console, click Create, then select New Certificate. Determine whether your certificate will be self-signed or signed by a Certificate Authority (CA), then click OK. To modify the property values of the self-signed certificate, click Selected, then select Modify. Make the appropriate changes, then click OK. To work with existing and archived certificates or signing certificates, click Advanced. Then you can choose the following options: Delete existing certificates Work with archived certificates Import certificates View issuer certificates Click Apply for all changes to take effect. Use the online Help if you need additional information for managing your certificates. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Remote operations Connect to and use the HMC remotely. Remote operations use the GUI used by a local HMC operator or the command line interface (CLI) on the HMC. You can perform operations remotely in the following ways: Use a remote HMC Use a Web browser to connect to a local HMC Use an HMC remote command line The remote HMC is an HMC that is on a different subnet from the service processor, therefore the service processor cannot be auto discovered with IP multicast.  To determine whether to use a remote HMC or Web browser connected to a local HMC, consider the scope of control that you need. A remote HMC defines a specific set of managed objects that are directly controlled by the remote HMC, while a Web browser to a local HMC has control over the same set of managed objects as the local HMC. The communications connectivity and communications speed is an additional consideration; LAN connectivity provides acceptable communications for either a remote HMC or Web browser control.    A remote HMC gives the most complete set of functions because it is a complete HMC; only the process of configuring the managed objects is different from a local HMC.  If you need occasional monitoring and control of managed objects that are connected to a single local HMC, use a web browser. An example of using the web browser might be an off-hours monitor from home by an operator or system programmer. An alternative to performing tasks on the HMC graphical user interface is using the command line interface (CLI).  Learn about the requirements your web browser must meet to monitor and control the HMC. Perform the necessary steps to prepare to use a web browser to access the HMC. Log in to the HMC remotely from a LAN-connected web browser. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Using a remote HMC A remote HMC gives the most complete set of functions because it is a complete HMC; only the process of configuring the managed objects is different from a local HMC.  As a complete HMC, a remote HMC has the same setup and maintenance requirements as a local Hardware Management Console. A remote HMC needs LAN TCP/IP connectivity to each managed object (service processor) that is to be managed; therefore, any customer firewall that may exist between the remote HMC and its managed objects must permit HMC to service processor communications to occur. A remote HMC may also need communication with another HMC for service and support.  shows the ports a remote HMC uses for communications. Port Use udp 9900 HMC to HMC discovery  tcp 9920 HMC to HMC commands A remote HMC needs connectivity to IBM® (or another HMC that has connectivity to IBM) for service and support. The connectivity to IBM might be in the form of access to the Internet (through a company firewall), or a dialed connection through a customer-provided switched telephone connection that uses the supplied modem (see ). A remote HMC cannot use the supplied modem for communication with a local HMC or a service processor.  Performance and the availability of the status information and access to the control functions of the service processor depends on the reliability, availability, and responsiveness of the customer network that interconnects the remote HMC with the managed object. A remote HMC monitors the connection to each service processor and attempts to recover any lost connections and can report those connections that cannot be recovered.  Security for a remote HMC is provided by the HMC user-login procedures in the same way as a local HMC. As with a local HMC, all communication between a remote HMC and each service processor is encrypted. Certificates for secure communications are provided, and can be changed by the user if desired (see ).  TCP/IP access to the remote HMC is controlled through its internally managed firewall and is limited to HMC related functions.  Parent topic:          
 Manage Outbound Connectivity Customize the means for outbound connectivity for the HMC to use to connect to remote service.   If Customizable Data Replication is Enabled on this HMC (using the Manage Data Replication task), the data specified in this task may change depending on automatic replication from other HMCs configured on your network. For more information on data replication, see . You can configure this HMC to attempt connections through the local modem, Internet, Internet Virtual Private Network (VPN), or through a remote pass-through system. Remote service is a two-way communication between the HMC and the IBM® Service Support System for the purpose of conducting automated service operations. The connection can only be initiated by the HMC. IBM Service Support System cannot and never attempts to initiate a connection to the HMC.  To customize your connectivity information, do the following:  Open the Manage Outbound Connectivity task from the Service Management work pane. From the Manage Outbound Connectivity window select Enable local server as call-home server (a check mark appears) before proceeding with the task.   You must first Accept the terms described about the information you provided in this task.  This allows the local HMC to connect to your service provider's remote support facility for call-home requests. The dial information window displays the following tabs for providing input:  Local Modem  Internet Internet VPN Pass-Through Systems If you want to allow connectivity over a modem, use the Local Modem tab, then select Allow local modem dialing for service . If your location requires a prefix to be dialed in order to reach an outside line, click Modern Configurationand enter the Dial prefix in the Customize Modem Settings window required by your location. Click OK to accept the setting. Click Add from the Local Modem tab page to add a telephone number. When local modem dialing is allowed, there must be at least one telephone number configured. If you want to allow connectivity over the Internet, use the Internet tab, then select Allow an existing internet connection for service.  If you want to configure the use of a VPN over an existing Internet connection to connect from the local HMC to your service provider's remote support facility, use the Internet VPN tab.  If you want to allow the HMC to use the pass-through systems as configured by the TCP/IP address or host name, use the Pass-Through Systems tab. When you complete all the necessary fields, click OK to save your changes. Use the online Help if you need additional information for customizing outbound connectivity information. Parent topic:          
 Manage Data Replication This task enables or disables customized data replication. Customized data replication allows another HMC to obtain customized console data from or send data to this HMC. The following types of data can be configured: Customer information data Administrator information (such as customer name, address, and telephone number) System information (such as administrator name, address, and telephone of your system) Account information (such as customer number, enterprise number, and sales branch office) Group data All user-defined group definitions Modem configuration data Configure modem for remote support Outbound connectivity data Configure local modem to RSF Enable an internet connection Configure to an external time source   Customizable console data is accepted from other HMCs only after specific HMCs and their associated allowable customizable data types have been configured.  Use the online Help to get additional information for enabling or disabling customizable data replication. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Customizable data replication The Customizable Data Replication service provides the ability to configure a set of Hardware Management Consoles (HMCs) to automatically replicate any changes to certain types of data so that the configured set of HMCs automatically keep this data synchronized without manual intervention.  Before enabling this replication service, you may want to save your original data settings in case you need to restore these settings at a future time. See . The following types of data can be configured: Customer information data Administrator information (customer name, address, telephone number, and so on.) System information (administrator name, address, telephone of your system) Account information (customer number, enterprise number, sales branch office, and so on.) Group data All user-defined group definitions Modem configuration data Configure modem for remote support Outbound connectivity data Configure local modem to RSF Enable an internet connection Configure to an external time source The Customizable Data Replication service can be enabled for the following types of operations: Peer-to-peer (see ).Provides automatic replication of the selected customized data types between peer HMCs.  Changes made on any of these consoles are replicated to the other consoles. Master-to-slave (see ).Provides automatic replication of the selected customized data types from one or more designated master HMCs to one or more designated slave HMCs.  Changes made on a master console are automatically replicated to the slave console. Configure automatic replication of the selected customized data types between peer HMCs. Master-to-slave replication provides automatic replication of the selected customized data types from one or more designated master HMCs to one or more designated slave HMCs. As data is replicated from one HMC to another, an internal level indicator for the data being replicated is recorded each time the data is altered on the data source.  Learn about how to force the replication of data from one or more data sources. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Save Upgrade Data This task uses a wizard to save upgrade data to selected media. This data consists of files that were created or customized while running the current software level. Saving this data to selected media is performed prior to an HMC software upgrade. Open the Save Upgrade Data task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Save Upgrade Data window, this wizard takes you through the steps required for saving your data. Select the type of media you want to save your data to, then click Next to proceed through the task windows.  Click Finish when you have completed the task. Use the online Help if you need additional information for saving upgrade data. Parent topic:          
 Data replication As data is replicated from one HMC to another, an internal level indicator for the data being replicated is recorded each time the data is altered on the data source.  Learn about how to force the replication of data from one or more data sources. Each HMC keeps track of the level indicator for each type of data and will not accept data from a data source when the level indicator is not greater than that on the receiving HMC. If you need to force the replication of data from one or more data sources and the level indicator on the receiving HMC is greater than that of the data sources, do the following: Log in the HMC using a user ID that has administrator roles. In the HMC Management work pane, click .  Deselect all the data types from the  list.  If you just want to reset the level indicator for a particular data type, just deselect that data type. Click . In the HMC Management work pane, click .  Select the types of data from the  list you just deselected. Click .  Deselecting and then reselecting the data types resets the internal level indicators for the specified types of data and forces replication of the data from the data sources.  Parent topic:          
 Service Management tasks The tasks that are available on the HMC for the Service Management tasks are described.  To open these tasks, see .  Depending on the task roles assigned to your user ID you may not have access to all the tasks. See  for a listing of the tasks and the user roles allowed to access them.  This task reports problems that occurred on your Hardware Management Console to the service provider (for example, the mouse does not work) or lets you test problem reporting. This task allows you to select the criteria for the set of serviceable events you want to view. When you finish selecting the criteria, you can view the serviceable events that match your specified criteria. This task allows you to load or reload serviceable events from an XML file. This task enables you to manage remote connections. This task views or manages call-home requests that the console has submitted.  This task formats a , diskette, or USB 2.0 Flash Drive Memory Key. This task manages procedures for dumps of the selected system. Transmit service information so that it can be used for problem determination. This task allows you enable or disable the call-home state for managed systems. Customize the means for outbound connectivity for the HMC to use to connect to remote service.  This tasks allows your service provider to temporarily access your local console, such as the HMC, or the partitions of a managed system. This task enables you to customize the customer information for the HMC. Request authorization for Electronic Service Agent™. Electronic Service Agent associates your system with a user ID and allows access to system information through the Electronic Service Agent facility.   This task adds email addresses that notify you when problem events occur on your system and configures how you want to receive notification of system events from the Electronic Service Agent.  This task configures the timers that connection monitoring uses to detect outages and enables or disables connection monitoring for selected machines. Learn how to open the Call-Home Setup wizard using the HMC interface. Parent topic:          
 Create Serviceable Event This task reports problems that occurred on your Hardware Management Console to the service provider (for example, the mouse does not work) or lets you test problem reporting. Submitting a problem is dependent upon whether you have customized this Hardware Management Console to use the Remote Support Facility (RSF) and if it is authorized to automatically call for service. If so, the problem information and service request is sent to the service provider automatically with a modem transmission. To report a problem on your Hardware Management Console, do the following:  Open the Create Serviceable Event task from the taskpad. From the Report a Problem window, select a problem type from the list displayed. Enter a brief description of your problem in the Problem Description input field and then click Request Service. To test problem reporting from the Report a Problem window: Select Test automatic problem reporting and enter This is just a test in the Problem Description input field. Click Request Service. The problems are reported to the service provider for the Hardware Management Console. Reporting a problem sends to the service provider the information you provide on Report a Problem window, and machine information that identifies the console. Use the online Help if you need additional information for reporting a problem or testing if problem reporting works. Parent topic:          
 Manage Serviceable Events This task allows you to select the criteria for the set of serviceable events you want to view. When you finish selecting the criteria, you can view the serviceable events that match your specified criteria. To set the criteria for the serviceable events you to view: Open the Manage Serviceable Events task from the Service Management work pane. From the Manage Serviceable Events window, provide event criteria, error criteria, and FRU criteria. Click OK when you have specified the criteria you want for the serviceable events you want to view.  Use the online Help if you need additional information managing events.  Parent topic:          
 Load Serviceable Events This task allows you to load or reload serviceable events from an XML file. To load serviceable events, do the following Open the Load Serviceable Events task from the Service Management work pane. From the Load Serviceable Events window, specify the path and name of the XML file. Click press for update to proceed. Parent topic:          
 Manage Remote Connections This task enables you to manage remote connections.  The HMC's call-home server service must be enabled for you to use this task. The HMC manages remote connections automatically. It puts requests on a queue and processes them in the order in which they are received. However, this task allows you to manage the queue manually, if necessary. You can stop transmissions, move priority requests ahead of others, or delete requests.  To manage remote connections, do the following: Open the Manage Remote Connections task from the Service Management work pane. From the Manage Remote Connections window, a list of transmitting requests being and a list of waiting requests transmitted are displayed. You can select requests from either list and display the available options by clicking Options on the menu bar. The options permit you to:  Prioritize a selected request (move it to the top of the queue) Cancel selected requests Cancel all active requests (those being transmitted) Cancel all waiting requests Hold the queue (puts queue on hold after completing current active request) Release the queue Close the window and exit Use the online Help if you need additional information for manually managing remote connections.  Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Manage Systems Call-Home This task allows you enable or disable the call-home state for managed systems.  If Customizable Data Replication is Enabled on this HMC (using the Manage Data Replication task), the data specified in this task may change depending on automatic replication from other HMCs configured on your network. For more information on data replication, see . By enabling the call-home state for a managed system this causes the console to automatically contact a service center when a serviceable event occurs. When a managed system is disabled, your service representative is not informed of serviceable events. To manage call-home for the system(s): Open the Manage Systems Call-Home task from the Service Management work pane. From the Manage Systems Call-Home window, select a system or systems you want to enable or disable the call-home state. Click OK when you have completed the task. Use the online Help if you need additional information for managing serviceable events notification.  Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Manage Remote Support Requests This task views or manages call-home requests that the console has submitted.  Open the Manage Remote Support Requests task from the Service Management work pane. From the Manage Remote Support Requests window, a list of active requests and a list of waiting requests are displayed. You can select requests from either list and display the available options by clicking Options on the menu bar. The options permit you to:  View all call-home servers  Cancel selected requests Cancel all active requests  Cancel all waiting requests Close the window and exit Use the online Help if you need additional information for manually managing remote connections.  Parent topic:          
 Format Media This task formats a , diskette, or USB 2.0 Flash Drive Memory Key. You can use this task to format the following DVD-RAMs: Backup/restore Service data. You can format a diskette by supplying a user-specified label. To format a , diskette, or USB 2.0 Flash Drive Memory Key, do the following: Open the Format Media task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Format Media window, select the type of media you want to format, then click OK.  Make sure your media has been correctly inserted, then click Format. The Format Media progress window is displayed. When the media is formatted, the Format Media Completed window is displayed. Click OK and then click Close to end the task. Use the online Help if you need additional information for formatting a DVD-RAM, diskette, or USB 2.0 Flash Drive Memory Key. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Manage Dumps This task manages procedures for dumps of the selected system. To manage a dump, do the following: Open the Manage Dumps task from the Service Management work pane. From the Manage Dumps window, select a dump and perform one of the following dump-related tasks: From Selected on the menu bar:  Copy the dump to media. Copy the dump to a remote system. Use the call home feature to transmit the dump to your service provider. Delete a dump.  From Actions on the menu bar:  Initiate a dump of the hardware and server firmware for the managed system. Initiate a dump of the service processor. Initiate a dump of the Bulk Power Control service processor. Modify the dump capability parameters for a dump type.  From Status on the menu bar, you can view the offload progress of the dump.  Click OK when you have completed this task. Use the online Help to get additional information for managing dumps. Parent topic:          
 Transmit Service Information Transmit service information so that it can be used for problem determination. To transmit service information, do the following: In the Service Management work pane, click . Click one of the following tabs: Transmit. Use this page to schedule when to transmit service data to your service provider (specifying frequency in days and time of day) and how you want to transmit the service and performance management information. FTP. Use this page to configure the File Transfer Protocol (FTP) information for the FTP server, with or without a firewall, for off loading service information. This service information is extended error data consisting of problem related-data about problems opened on the HMC for the HMC or managed system. Transmit Service Data to IBM®. Use this page to provide the ability to send information that is stored on the HMC hard disk that can be used for problem determination. The data may be traces, logs, or dumps and the destination for the data may be the IBM Service Support System, a diskette, USB flash memory drive, or a DVD-RAM. Before you can send information to the IBM Service Support System, Phone Server and Remote Service must be enabled.  Click . Use the online Help for additional information about transmitting service information. Parent topic:          
 Manage Inbound Connectivity This tasks allows your service provider to temporarily access your local console, such as the HMC, or the partitions of a managed system. To manage inbound connectivity, do the following: Open the Manage Inbound Connectivity task from the Service Management work pane. From the Customize Inbound Connectivity Settings window:  Use the Remote Service tab to provide the information necessary to start an attended remote service session. Use the Call Answer tab to provide the information necessary to accept incoming calls from your service provider to start an unattended remote service session. Click OK to proceed with your selections. Use the online Help if you need additional information on managing the inbound connectivity. Parent topic:          
 Manage Customer Information This task enables you to customize the customer information for the HMC.  If Customizable Data Replication is Enabled on this HMC (using the Manage Data Replication task), the data specified in this task may change depending on automatic replication from other HMCs configured on your network. For more information on data replication, see . The Manage Customer Information window displays the following tabs for providing input: Administrator System  Account To customize your customer information, do the following: Open the Manage Customer Information task from the Service Management work pane. From the Manage Customer Information window, provide the appropriate information on the Administrator page.  Information is required for fields with an asterisk (*). Select the System and Account tabs from the Manage Customer Information window to provide additional information.  Click OK when you have completed the task. Use the online Help to get additional information about customizing your account information. Parent topic:          
 Authorize User Request authorization for Electronic Service Agent™. Electronic Service Agent associates your system with a user ID and allows access to system information through the Electronic Service Agent facility.   To register a user ID, do the following: In the Service Management work pane, click Authorize User. Provide a user ID that is registered with the Electronic Service Agent.  Click OK. Use the online Help if you need additional information.  Parent topic:          
 Manage Serviceable Event Notification This task adds email addresses that notify you when problem events occur on your system and configures how you want to receive notification of system events from the Electronic Service Agent™.  To set up notification: Open the Manage Serviceable Event Notification task from the Service Management work pane. From the Manage Serviceable Event Notification window, you can do the following:  Use the Email tab to add the email addresses that will be notified when problem events occur on your system. Use the SNMP Trap Configuration tab to specify locations for sending Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) trap messages for Hardware Management Console application program interface events. Click OK when you have completed this task. Use the online Help if you need additional information for managing serviceable events notification.  Parent topic:          
 Manage Connection Monitoring This task configures the timers that connection monitoring uses to detect outages and enables or disables connection monitoring for selected machines. You can view and, if authorized, change connection monitoring settings by machine. Connection monitoring generates serviceable events when communication problems are detected between the HMC and managed systems. If you disable connection monitoring, no serviceable events are generated for networking problems between the selected machine and this HMC.  To monitor the connections, do the following: Open the Manage Connection Monitoring task from the Service Management work pane. From the Manage Connection Monitoring window, adjust the timer settings, if required, and enable or disable the server. Click OK when you have completed the task. Use the online Help if you need additional information about connection monitoring. Parent topic:          
 Call-Home Setup Wizard Learn how to open the Call-Home Setup wizard using the HMC interface. To open the Call-Home Setup wizard, do the following: Parent topic:          
 Using a web browser If you need occasional monitoring and control of managed objects that are connected to a single local HMC, use a web browser. An example of using the web browser might be an off-hours monitor from home by an operator or system programmer. Each HMC contains a web server that can be configured to allow remote access for a specified set of users. If a customer firewall exists between the web browser and the local HMC, the ports must be accessible and the firewall setup to allow incoming requests on these ports.  shows the ports that a web browser needs for communicating with an HMC.  Port Use TCP 443 Secure browser access to web server communication TCP 8443 Secure browser access to web server communication TCP 9960 Browser applet communication TCP 124431 Remote web browser communication 1This port is opened in the HMC firewall when remote access is enabled in HMC Version 7.8.0 and later. This port must also be opened in any firewall that is between the remote client and the HMC. After the HMC is configured to allow web browser access, a web browser gives an enabled user access to all the configured functions of a local HMC, except those functions that require physical access to the HMC, such as those that use the local diskette or DVD media. The user interface that is presented to the remote web browser user is the same as that of the local HMC and is subject to the same constraints as the local HMC.  The web browser can be connected to the local HMC by using a LAN TCP/IP connection and using only encrypted (HTTPS) protocols. Logon security for a web browser is provided by the HMC user-login procedures. Certificates for secure communications are provided, and can be changed by the user (see ).  Performance and the availability of the status information and access to the control functions of the managed objects depends on the reliability, availability, and responsiveness of the network that interconnects the web browser with the local HMC. Because there is no direct connection between the web browser and the individual managed objects, the web browser does not monitor the connection to each service processor, does not do any recovery, and does not report any lost connections. These functions are handled by the local HMC  The web browser system does not require connectivity to IBM® for service or support. Maintenance of the browser and system level is the responsibility of the customer. If the URL of the HMC is specified using the format https://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx (where xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx is the IP address) and Microsoft Internet Explorer is used as the browser, a hostname mismatch message is displayed. To avoid this message, a Firefox browser is used or a hostname is configured for the HMC, using the Change Network Settings task (see ), and this hostname is specified in the URL instead of an IP address. For example, you can use the format https://hostname.domain_name or https://hostname (for example, using https://hmc1.ibm.com or https://hmc1). Parent topic:          
 Using the HMC remote command line An alternative to performing tasks on the HMC graphical user interface is using the command line interface (CLI).  You can use the command line interface in the following situations: When consistent results are required. If you have to administer several managed systems, you can achieve consistent results by using the command line interface. The command sequence can be stored in scripts and run remotely. When automated operations are required. After you have developed a consistent way to manage the managed systems, you can automate the operations by invoking the scripts from batch-processing applications, such as the cron daemon, from other systems. On a local HMC, you can use the command line interface in a terminal window. To open a terminal window, use the Open Restricted Shell Terminal task from the HMC Management work pane. You must ensure that your script executions between SSH clients and the HMC are secure. You can enable or disable the remote command line interface access to the HMC. Parent topic:          
 Setting up secure script execution between SSH clients and the HMC You must ensure that your script executions between SSH clients and the HMC are secure. HMCs typically are placed inside the machine room where managed systems are located, so you might not have physical access to the HMC. In this case, you can remotely access it using either a remote Web browser or the remote command line interface.   To enable scripts to run unattended between an SSH client and an HMC, the SSH protocol must already be installed on the client's operating system. To enable scripts to run unattended between an SSH client and an HMC, do the following: Enable remote command execution.  For more information, see  On the client's operating system, run the SSH protocol key generator. To run the SSH protocol key generator, do the following:To store the keys, create a directory named $HOME/.ssh (either RSA or DSA keys can be used). To generate public and private keys, run the following command:ssh-keygen -t  rsa The following files are created in the $HOME/.ssh directory:private key: id_rsa public  key: id_rsa.pub The write bits for both group and other are turned off. Ensure that the private key has a permission of 600. On the client's operating system, use ssh and run the mkauthkeys command to update the HMC user's authorized_keys2 file on the HMC by using the following command:ssh hmcuser@hmchostname “mkauthkeys -–add '<the contents of $HOME/ .ssh/id_rsa.pub>' “ “ To delete the key from the HMC, can use the following command: ssh hmcuser@hmchostname “mkauthkeys --remove 'joe@somehost' “ To enable password prompting for all hosts that access the HMC through ssh, use the scp command to copy the key file from the HMC: scp hmcuser@hmchostname:.ssh/authorized_keys2 authorized_keys2 Edit the authorized_keys2 file and remove all lines in this file. Then copy it back to the HMC: scp authorized_keys2 hmcuser@hmchostname:.ssh/authorized_keys2 Parent topic:          
 Enabling and disabling HMC remote commands You can enable or disable the remote command line interface access to the HMC. To enable or disable remote commands, do the following: Open the Remote Command Execution task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Remote Command Execution window: To enable remote commands, select Enable remote command execution using the ssh facility. To disable remote commands, make sure Enable remote command execution using the ssh facility is not selected. Click OK. Parent topic:          
 Web browser requirements Learn about the requirements your web browser must meet to monitor and control the HMC. HMC web browser support requires HTML 2.0, JavaScript 1.0, Java™ Virtual Machine (JVM), Java Runtime Environment (JRE) Version 7, and cookie support in browsers that will connect to the HMC. Contact your support personnel to assist you in determining if your browser is configured with a Java Virtual Machine. The web browser must use HTTP 1.1. If you are using a proxy server, HTTP 1.1 must be enabled for the proxy connections. Additionally, pop-ups must be enabled for all HMCs addressed in the browser if running with pop-ups disabled. The following browsers have been tested: Microsoft Internet Explorer 6.0, Internet Explorer 7.0, Internet Explorer 8.0, and Internet Explorer 9.0 are supported. Internet Explorer 10.0 Preview is not supported; however, the Internet Explorer compatibility mode might alleviate most problems. If your browser is configured to use an Internet proxy, then local Internet addresses are included in the exception list. Consult your network administrator for more information. If you still need to use the proxy to get to the Hardware Management Console, enable Use  under the  tab in your Internet Options window. Mozilla Firefox HMC Version 7.6 supports Mozilla Firefox Version 4 through Mozilla Firefox Version 10. Ensure that the JavaScript options to raise or lower windows and to move or resize existing windows are enabled. To enable these options, click the  tab in the browser's Options dialog, click  next to the Enable JavaScript option, and then select the Raise or lower windows option and the Move or resize existing windows options. Use these options to easily switch between HMC tasks. Other web browser considerations Session cookies need to be enabled in order for ASMI to work when connected to HMC remotely. The ASM proxy code saves session information and uses it. Internet Explorer Click . Click the  tab and select .  Determine whether  is checked. If not checked, select  and . For the First-party Cookies and Third-party Cookies, choose block, prompt, or accept. Prompt is preferred, in which case you are prompted every time a site tries to write cookies. Some sites need to be allowed to write cookies. Firefox Click . Click the  Tab. Select . If you want to allow only specific sites, select , and add this HMC to allow access. Parent topic:          
 Preparing to use the web browser Perform the necessary steps to prepare to use a web browser to access the HMC. Before you can use a web browser to access an HMC, you must do the following: Configure the HMC to allow remote control for specified users. For LAN-based connections, know the TCP/IP address of the HMC to be controlled, and have correctly set up any firewall access between the HMC and the web browser.  Have a valid user ID and password assigned by the access administrator for HMC web access. Parent topic:          
 Logging in to the HMC from a LAN-connected web browser Log in to the HMC remotely from a LAN-connected web browser. Use the following steps to log in to the HMC from a LAN-connected web browser: Ensure that your web browser PC has LAN connectivity to the desired HMC. From your web browser, enter the URL of the desired HMC, using the format https://hostname.domain_name  (for example: https://hmc1.ibm.com) or https://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx.If this is the first access of the HMC for the current web browser session, you can receive a certificate error. This certificate error is displayed if: The web server contained in the HMC is configured to use a self-signed certificate and the browser has not been configured to trust the HMC as an issuer of certificates,  The HMC is configured to use a certificate signed by a Certificate Authority (CA) and the browser has not been configured to trust this CA. In either case, if you know that the certificate being displayed to the browser is the one used by the HMC, you can continue and all communications to the HMC will be encrypted.  If you do not want to receive notification of a certificate error for the first access of any browser session, you can configure the browser to trust the HMC or the CA. In general, to configure the browser, use one of the following methods:You must indicate that the browser will permanently trust the issuer of the certificate By viewing the certificate and installing, to the database of trusted CAs, the certificate of the CA that issued the certificate used by the HMC.    If the certificate is self-signed, the HMC itself is considered the CA that issued the certificate. When prompted, enter the user name and password assigned by your administrator.  Parent topic:          
 Remote Command Execution This task is used to enable remote command execution using the ssh facility. Open the Remote Command Execution task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Remote Command Execution window, select Enable remote command execution using the ssh facility. Click OK. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Remote Virtual Terminal A Remote Virtual Terminal connection is a terminal connection to a logical partition from another remote HMC. Use this task to enable Remote Virtual Terminal access for remote clients. Open the Remote Virtual Terminal task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Remote Virtual Terminal window, you can enable this task by selecting Enable remote virtual terminal connections. Click OK to activate your changes. Use the online Help to get additional information for enabling a remote terminal connection.  Parent topic:          
 Open Restricted Shell Terminal Open a command line session.  You cannot perform this task remotely. In the HMC Management work pane, click . From the  window you can issue commands remotely through secure shell access to the managed system. This provides consistent results and automates administration of managed systems. Parent topic:          
 Change Language and Locale This task sets the language and location for the HMC. After you select a language, you can select a locale associated with that language.  The language and locale settings determine the language, the character set, and other settings specific to the country or region (such as formats for date, time, numbers, and monetary units). Changes made in the Change Language and Locale window affect only the language and locale for the HMC itself. If you access the HMC remotely, the language and locale settings on your browser determine the settings that the browser uses to display the HMC interface. To change the language and locale on the HMC: Open the Change Language and Locale task from the HMC Management Work pane. From the Change Language and Locale window, choose the applicable language and locale. Click OK to apply the change.  Use the online Help if you need additional information for changing the language and locale of the HMC. Parent topic:          
 Create Welcome Text This task allows you to customize the welcome message or to display a warning message that appears on the Welcome window before you log onto the HMC. You can use this text to notify users of certain corporate policies or security restrictions applying to the system. To create a message: Open the Create Welcome Text task from the HMC Management work pane. From the Create Welcome Text window, enter a message in the input area. Click OK to apply the change. The next time you log in to the HMC, your message is displayed. Use the online Help to get additional information about displaying a message before logging onto the HMC.  Parent topic:          
 Managing Install Resources Add or remove operating environment installation resources for your HMC. You can use the HMC to deploy a system plan that contains information for installing one or more operating environments on one or more logical partitions. To install an operating environment as part of deploying a system plan, the HMC must be able to access and to use an installation resource for that operating environment.  An operating environment installation resource is the necessary set of installation files for a specific version of an operating environment at a specific release and modification level. The installation resource can be on the local hard drive for the HMC or it can be on a Network Installation Management (NIM) server that the HMC can access.  When you define and create a local installation resource, you must meet the following prerequisites: You can define only one local installation resource for a specific operating environment version and modification level.  The HMC must have enough free hard disk space for the necessary set of operating environment installation files. The HMC creates the installation resource in the same local hard drive location that the HMC uses for main store dumps. Consequently, it is recommended that you maintain a certain amount of free hard drive space to avoid potential main store dump problems because main store dumps are necessary to help resolve some types of HMC errors. The typical main store dump averages between 4 to 8 gigabytes (GB), so consider maintaining at least 10 GB of free hard drive space for these dumps when you define and create local installation resources for the HMC.  You must have the operating environment installation media available to copy to the HMC local hard drive. The type of media that you need varies based on the type of operating environment you want to be able to install. You can use CDs or DVDs as the installation image source for Red Hat and SLES operating environments. However, you can use DVDs only as the installation image source for  Virtual I/O Server operating environments.  When you define a remote NIM server installation resource, you must meet a number of prerequisite conditions to ensure that the HMC can access and use the installation resource: The complete set of necessary operating environment installation files must exist on the NIM server within a uniquely named NIM resource group.  You can define a remote resource for  Virtual I/O Server operating environments only.  You can define multiple remote installation resources for a specific operating environment version and modification level, as long as each installation resource is within a different NIM named resource group.  You must know the fully qualified host name of the NIM server. You must know the resource group name that contains the necessary set of operating environment installation files.  You must set up the HMC to be able to access the NIM server and use the operating environment installation files during system plan deployment. The HMC must be able to run secure shell commands by means of an ssh connection to access the NIM server successfully. Consequently, you must ensure that the HMC can provide an appropriate cryptographic key to the NIM server by completing the following steps: Open an HMC command prompt and run the following command to generate the RSA keys that the HMC needs for ssh connections and to place the keys in an accessible file in the HMC HOME directory: ssh-keygen -t rsa -f /home/hscroot/ssh_keys. This command creates two files: one called  and one called  that contain the needed RSA keys. The  file contains the private key that the HMC needs for establishing an ssh connection and this file needs to remain in the /home/hscroot subdirectory; the  file contains the public key that the NIM server must have to complete the ssh connection with the HMC.  On the remote NIM server, append or copy the content of the  file into the  file on the NIM server.   Remote clients defined on the NIM server remain in place after installation of the operating environment on a partition for post installation management. The short hostname of the system will identify this remote client.  Each installation resource that you define and create for the HMC is available for selection in the  step of the Deploy System Plan Wizard. If the installation resource that you want to use for a selected partition is not available when you perform this step, you can click New Install Resource to open the Manage Install Resources window to define and create a new installation resource.  Parent topic:  Related information:         
 System Plans You can display the plans and the tasks used to deploy system plans to managed systems. A system plan contains a specification of the logical partition configuration of a single managed system. You can also use this node to import, export, and manage the files containing these system plans.  To display the plans and tasks: In the navigation pane, select . In the work pane, select a plan you want to work with by clicking in the  column. From the taskpad, click one of the following tasks: Create System Plan Deploy System Plan Export System Plan Import System Plan Remove System Plan View System Plan These tasks are described in further detail in . The table in the work pane displays the system plans that the HMC manages and attributes related to the system plans.   The following attributes are set as the defaults. However, you can select or deselect the attributes that you want displayed in the table by clicking the  icon on the table toolbar. You can also reorder the columns. For more information, see . Name Displays the system plan file name. Description Specifies a description of the system plan. Source Displays how the system plan was created. Version Displays version information about the system plan. Last Modified Date Specifies the date when the system plan was last modified. The create and deploy System Plans tasks are also displayed for a server under the  task group.  If there are no system plans available when you select , you can create or import a plan from the tasks listed in the taskpad. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Column configuration The column configuration buttons give you the ability to select which columns to display for folders in the Systems Management tree view.  Click the  button to arrange the columns in the table in a desired order or hide columns from view. All available columns are listed in the Columns list box by their column name. You select the columns you want displayed or hidden by checking or unchecking the box next to the column names. The column order is manipulated by clicking on a column name from the list box and using the arrow buttons to the right of the list to change the order of the selected column. When you have completed the configuration of the columns, click . The columns appear in the table as you specified. If you want to go back to the original layout of the table, click the  button from the table toolbar. Select one or more of the properties you want to reset. Click  to save this setting.  Parent topic:          
 Working with Tables The tool bar at the top of the table contains buttons used to select, filter, sort, and arrange the entries in the table.  Hovering over the toolbar buttons displays their functions. The toolbar also includes menus that are used with the information displayed in the tables. For more information, see  and . You can select more than one table row at a time. Learn more about how to define a filter for a column to limit the entries displayed in a table. The Edit Sort and Clear All Sorts buttons are used to perform multi-column sorts of objects in the table in ascending or descending order. The column configuration buttons give you the ability to select which columns to display for folders in the Systems Management tree view. The Views menu is displayed on the toolbar and is only available for table selections when working with servers, custom groups, exceptions view, or attention LEDs view. Parent topic:          
 Views menu The Views menu is displayed on the toolbar and is only available for table selections when working with servers, custom groups, exceptions view, or attention LEDs view. This table option allows you to display different sets of attributes (columns) in the table. You can also change the attributes for each view.  Parent topic:          
 Selecting Rows You can select more than one table row at a time.  Rows can be individually selected or a block of rows can be selected at once by first left-clicking the selection box of the first row in the desired block and then shift-clicking the selection box of the last row in the desired block. The Select All or Deselect All buttons can be used to select or deselect all objects in the table. The table summary at the bottom of the table includes the total number of items that are selected.  Parent topic:          
 Filtering Learn more about how to define a filter for a column to limit the entries displayed in a table. If you select the Filter Row button a row appears under the title row of the table. Select Filter under a column to define a filter for that column to limit the entries in a table. Tables can be filtered to show only those entries most important to you. The filtered view can be toggled on and off by selecting the check box next to the desired filter in the filter row. Select the Clear All Filters button to return to the complete listing. The table summary includes the total number of items that pass the filter criteria in addition to the total number of items.  Parent topic:          
 Sorting The Edit Sort and Clear All Sorts buttons are used to perform multi-column sorts of objects in the table in ascending or descending order.  Click Edit Sort to define sorts for columns in a table. Alternatively, single column sorting can be performed by selecting the ^ in the column header to change from ascending to descending order. Click Clear All Sorts to return to the default ordering.  Parent topic:          
 Work pane The work pane displays a table of information based on the current selection in the navigation pane or status bar.  Selecting an object displays a configurable table in the work pane. The tool bar at the top of the table contains buttons used to select, filter, sort, and arrange the entries in the table.  Parent topic:          
 Using the web-based user interface You can use the web-based user interface to perform tasks on the Hardware Management Console (HMC) or on your managed resources. This user interface comprises several major components: the banner, the taskbar, the navigation pane, the work pane, and the status bar. The banner, across the top of the workplace window, identifies the product and logo. It is optionally displayed. Use the Change User Interface Settings task to change the setting.  The taskbar, located below the banner, displays the names of any tasks that are running, the user ID you are logged in as, online help information, and the ability to logoff or disconnect from the console.  The navigation pane, in the left portion of the window, contains the primary navigation links for managing your system resources and the HMC. The items are referred to as nodes.  The work pane, in the right portion of the window, displays information based on the current selection from the navigation pane. For example, when Welcome is selected in the navigation pane, the Welcome window content is displayed in the work pane. The status bar, in the bottom left portion of the window, provides visual indicators of current overall system status. It also contains a status overview icon which may be selected to display more detailed status information in the work pane.  You can resize the panes of the HMC workplace by moving the mouse pointer over the border that separates the navigation pane from the work pane until the mouse pointer changes to a double-pointed arrow. When the pointer changes shape, press and hold the left mouse button while dragging the mouse pointer to the left or right. Release the button and your navigation pane or work pane is now larger or smaller in size. You can also do this within the work pane border that separates the resources table from the taskpad.  The taskbar provides the capability of an active task switcher.  The work pane displays a table of information based on the current selection in the navigation pane or status bar.  The status bar in the bottom left pane provides a view of overall system status, including managed system resources and the HMC. Parent topic:          
 Taskbar The taskbar provides the capability of an active task switcher.  The taskbar can be used as a navigation aid to move between tasks that were launched and have not yet been closed. The task switcher does not pause or resume existing tasks. Clicking on a task in the taskbar brings that task's window forward and gives it focus.  Applet-based tasks such as AIX® terminal windows, 5250 console windows, or restricted shell windows do not support the taskbar switching capabilities.  Please use the window switching capabilities for local windows to switch to the windows  for these tasks.  The right end of the taskbar also contains the following information: Your user ID. If you click the user ID, the Change User Interface Settings window opens. Help displays information about all the tasks on the HMC and how to use the Web-based user interface on the HMC. If you click Logoff, the Logoff or Disconnect window opens. Parent topic:          
 Navigation pane The navigation pane contains the primary navigation links for managing your system resources and the HMC. Welcome is the initial window that is displayed when you log on to the HMC. Systems Management contains a tree view of managed resources. You can display the plans and the tasks used to deploy system plans to managed systems. HMC Management contains a categorized view of HMC management tasks and their descriptions. Service Management contains a categorized or alphabetic view of tasks and their descriptions used to service the HMC. Updates provides a way for you to access information on both HMC and system firmware code levels at the same time without performing a task. Parent topic:          
 Welcome Welcome is the initial window that is displayed when you log on to the HMC.  The Welcome work pane lists the nodes of the navigation pane and their descriptions. It also includes the following Additional Resources: Guided Setup Wizard Provides a step-by-step process to configure your HMC. HMC Operations Guide Provides an online version of the Managing the HMC for system administrators and system operators using the HMC.If you are accessing the HMC remotely, you can view the publication in PDF format or in HTML format (click View as HTML). If you are accessing the HMC locally, you can view the publication in HTML format. HMC Readme Provides hints and errata information about the HMC. Online Information Provides information about the HMC. The following information is only available when you are accessing the HMC remotely. IBM® System Support supplies support and technical information for IBM Systems HMC Support supplies support and technical information for the HMC Education and Tutorials supplies course materials for training and updating HMC skills To see what level of the HMC you are currently using, point your mouse over  at the top of the work pane. Parent topic:          
 Systems Management Systems Management contains a tree view of managed resources. Servers represents the servers that are managed by this HMC. The Frames node identifies the frames managed by this HMC.  The Custom Groups node provides a mechanism for you to group system resources together in a single view. Parent topic:          
 Servers Servers represents the servers that are managed by this HMC.  To add servers, you can use the Add Managed System task under the Connections category in the taskpad. When you click Servers from the navigation pane a listing of individually defined servers is displayed in table form in the work pane, and under the Servers node in the navigation pane.  Learn about the information displayed when you select a server. Display a server's properties. After you have chosen the objects to work with, you are ready to perform the appropriate tasks on them. Learn about how to launch a task for your selected managed objects. When you select a managed server in the navigation pane, the work pane displays the list of partitions defined on the server. Display a partition's properties. Parent topic:          
 Selecting a server Learn about the information displayed when you select a server. To perform tasks on a server, click in the Select column next to the server name in the work pane table. To perform tasks on a server's partitions, you can perform one of the following actions: Select a server under the Servers node from the navigation pane. Click on a server name from the work pane table. When the work pane displays a list of servers, it displays the following attributes by default. Name Specifies the user-defined name of the managed system. Status Displays the current status of the managed system (for example, Operating, Power off, Initializing) and, in addition, displays icons representing an unacceptable state or an active Attention LED. See  or  for more information. Available Processing Units Displays the number of processing units that are available for assignment to logical partitions on the managed system.  This is the total number of processing units that are activated on the managed system minus the number of processing units that are assigned to the logical partitions, including the logical partitions that are shut down, on the managed system.  This number does not include any processing units that have not yet been activated with Capacity on Demand (CoD).  Available Memory Displays the amount of memory that is available for assignment to logical partitions on the managed system.  This is the total amount of memory that is activated on the managed system minus the amount of memory needed by managed system firmware minus the amount of memory that is assigned to the logical partitions, including the logical partitions that are shut down, on the managed system.  This number does not include any memory that has not yet been activated with Capacity on Demand (CoD). The available memory amount can be shown in MB or GB. Click MB or GB in the Available Memory column title. Reference Code Displays the system reference codes for the server. Click the reference code in the table for a detailed description. The Servers work pane table can also display the following optional attributes in the table.  Configurable Processing Units Displays the number of processors of the managed system. Configurable Memory Displays the configurable memory of the managed system. To show optional attributes, select the Column configuration icon on the table toolbar. This function allows you to select additional attributes that you want displayed as columns in the table. It also allows you to reorder the columns, see  for more information. You can also use Views from the table toolbar to display the Default server attributes in the table or to display the Capacity On Demand server attributes in the table. See  for more information. Parent topic:          
 Status: Unacceptable If any managed object is in unacceptable state, the Unacceptable indicator displays on the status bar.  When you select the  indicator, it displays a table in the work pane of only the objects in an unacceptable state. By clicking on the icon, help information is opened describing the status of the server or partition. You can also use the  menu to display your preferred table column configuration for these objects.  Parent topic:          
 Status bar The status bar in the bottom left pane provides a view of overall system status, including managed system resources and the HMC. A status-sensitive title, background color, and indicator icons are part of the status bar. The status indicators appear in color when one or more objects go into unacceptable status, have attention LEDs, or have open serviceable events. Otherwise, the status icon is not available. Click any of the individual icons in the status bar to view a listing of resources with specific status. For example, select the Unacceptable icon to view all resources in an unacceptable state. The results are displayed in a table in the work pane. If any managed object is in unacceptable state, the Unacceptable indicator displays on the status bar.  If any managed object’s Attention LED is activated, the Attention LED icon displays in the status bar. If at least one serviceable event for the HMC or a managed object is in an open state, the serviceable event icon displays in the status bar. The Status Overview icon displays a detailed summary of system status in the work pane. Parent topic:          
 Status: Attention LEDs If any managed object’s Attention LED is activated, the Attention LED icon displays in the status bar.  When you select the Attention LED icon it displays a table in the work pane of only the objects in Attention LED. A help window opens when you click on the icon. You can also use the Views menu to display your preferred table column configuration for these objects. Parent topic:          
 Status: Serviceable Events If at least one serviceable event for the HMC or a managed object is in an open state, the serviceable event icon displays in the status bar. When you click the icon the  window opens. This window displays all open events. Parent topic:          
 Status Overview The Status Overview icon displays a detailed summary of system status in the work pane. The  icon displays details about any errors, attention LEDs active, or open serviceable events found for the HMC or managed objects. It also summarizes the total number of errors, attention LEDs, and open serviceable events by object type. Object types include the server, partition, frames, and the HMC. When any of these conditions are present, links are available to display all objects with the particular state in the work pane.  Parent topic:          
 Displaying server details Display a server's properties. To display details (properties) about a server, you can select the server by clicking in the  column in the work pane table. Then you can either click  from the taskpad or click on the double-arrow icon next to the server name and click  from the context menu. In both cases, the Properties window opens.  Parent topic:          
 Partitions When you select a managed server in the navigation pane, the work pane displays the list of partitions defined on the server. The Partitions work pane table displays the following attributes by default: Name Specifies the user-defined name of the logical partition. ID Specifies the ID of the partition Status Displays the current status of the partition (for example, running, not activated) and, in addition, displays icons representing an unacceptable state or active Attention LED. See  or  for more information. Processing Units Displays the unit of measure for shared processing power across one or more virtual processors. Processing power can be specified in fractions of a processor. Memory  Specifies the amount of memory allocated to the partition currently. The memory amount can be shown in MB or GB. Click MB or GB in the Memory column title.  Active Profile Specifies the profile that was used to activate the partition last. Environment Specifies the type of object, logical partition, server, frame. Reference Code Displays the system reference codes for the partition. For POWER6® systems, click the reference code in the table for a detailed description.  The Partitions work pane table can also display the following optional attributes in the table.  Processor If the partition is using dedicated processors, this value indicates the number of processors currently allocated to the partition. If the partition is using shared processors, this value represents the virtual processors currently allocated to the partition.  Service Partition Specifies whether the partition has service authority. Configured Specifies whether a partition is configured with all the required resources to power on. Default Profile Specifies the profile that is configured as the default profile. When users perform the Activate task from the partition, this profile is selected by default. OS Version Displays the OS version of the managed system. Processor Mode Specifies whether the partition is using dedicated or shared processors. Memory Mode Specifies whether the partition is using dedicated or shared memory. IPL Source Displays the IPL source of the managed system.  Optional attributes can be displayed when you select the Column configuration icon on the table toolbar. This function allows you to select additional attributes that you want displayed as columns in the table. It also allows you to reorder the columns, see  for more information. Parent topic:          
 Displaying partition details Display a partition's properties. To display details (properties) about a partition you can select the partition by clicking in the Select column in the work pane table. Then you can either click Properties from the taskpad or click on the double-arrow icon next to the partition name and click Properties from the context menu. You can also click on the partition name. In all cases the Properties window is displayed.  Parent topic:          
 Frames The Frames node identifies the frames managed by this HMC.  Frames typically have dual Bulk Power Controllers (BPCs), however only one BPC is displayed as both BPCs share the same machine type, model, and serial number and function as redundant peers. The Frames work pane table includes the following attributes: Name Displays the defined name of the Frame. Status Displays the status of the frame object. A frame is in an unacceptable state when it is in No Connection or Incomplete state. When either of these conditions occurs, a red X is displayed in the status cells next to the status text which identifies the state. Clicking on either the X or the status text opens information describing the unacceptable state and potential remedies.  Frame Number Displays the number of the managed frame. You can modify the number. CEC must be powered off  to change the frame number. Connection Status Displays connection status of the frame (side A and B). Parent topic:          
 HMC Management HMC Management contains a categorized view of HMC management tasks and their descriptions. These tasks are used for setting up the HMC, maintaining its internal code, and securing the HMC.  To display the tasks in the work pane, do the following: In the Navigation pane, select  . In the work pane, click on the task you want to perform. By default, a categorized listing of the tasks is displayed. The categories include: Operations Administration To see the HMC level you are using, point your mouse over  at the top of the work pane. If you want an alphabetic listing of the tasks, click  in the upper right corner of the work pane. Click  to go back to the task categories.  If you are accessing the HMC remotely, some tasks do not display. HMC Management tasks are described in further detail in  and a listing of the tasks and the default user roles that can use them are shown in . Parent topic:          
 HMC Management tasks The tasks that are available on the Hardware Management Console (HMC) for the HMC Management tasks are described.  To open these tasks, see .  Depending on the task roles assigned to your user ID you may not have access to all the tasks. See  for a listing of the tasks and the user roles allowed to access them.  These tasks describe the tasks you can perform to operate your HMC.  These tasks describe the administration tasks you can perform using your HMC. Parent topic:          
 Updates Updates provides a way for you to access information on both HMC and system firmware code levels at the same time without performing a task.  The  work pane displays the HMC code level, and system code levels. You can also install corrective service by clicking .  Before performing HMC updates, see . To display the tasks, do the following:     In the navigation pane, select . Select a managed object. In the taskpad, click the task you want to perform. These tasks can also be viewed under the  task group when you are working with managed objects displayed inSystems Management.  Parent topic:          
 Update HMC Identify HMC version, release, service and build levels. When you click , the HMC displays the following information:Version Release Service Pack Build Level Base Version Serial Number of the HMC Bios Version on the HMC For more information about updating your HMC code, see . Parent topic:          
 Updating, upgrading, and migrating your HMC machine code Updates and upgrades are periodically released for the HMC to add new functionality and to improve existing features. Learn more about the differences between updating, upgrading, and migrating your HMC machine code. Also learn how to perform an HMC machine code update, upgrade, or migration. When you are finished with each of these tasks, the HMC reboots but the partitions do not. Updating HMC code Applies maintenance to an existing HMC levelDoes not require that you perform the  task Upgrading HMC code Replaces HMC software with a new release or fix level of the same programRequires that you boot from recovery media Migrating HMC code Moves HMC data from one HMC version to another A migration is a type of upgrade. Find out how to view the HMC machine code version and release. Learn how to obtain machine code updates for the HMC when the HMC has an Internet connection. Learn how to obtain machine code updates for the HMC using DVD or an FTP server. Learn how to upgrade the software on an HMC from one release to the next while maintaining your HMC configuration data. Learn how to move the machine code on an HMC from Version 6 to Version 7 while maintaining your HMC configuration data. Learn how to upgrade the software on an HMC from a remote location using network upgrade images.  Parent topic:          
 Determining your HMC machine code version and release Find out how to view the HMC machine code version and release. The level of machine code on the HMC will determine the available features, including concurrent server firmware maintenance and enhancements to upgrading to a new release.To view the HMC machine code version and release, do the following: Parent topic:          
 Obtaining and applying machine code updates for the HMC with an Internet connection Learn how to obtain machine code updates for the HMC when the HMC has an Internet connection. To obtain machine code updates for the HMC, perform steps 1 through 5. Parent topic:  Step 1. Ensure that you have an Internet connection To download updates from the service and support system or website to your HMC or server, you must have one of the following:SSL connectivity with or without a SSL proxy Internet VPN To ensure that you have an Internet connection, do the following:   If a connection to service and support does not exist, set up the service connection before proceeding with this procedure. For instructions on how to set up a connection to service and support, see Setting up your server to connect to  service and support.  If the test is not successful, troubleshoot your connectivity and correct the problem before proceeding with this procedure. Alternatively, you can obtain the update on DVD. Step 2. View the existing HMC machine code level To view the existing HMC machine code level, do the following: Step 3. View the available HMC machine code levels To view the available HMC machine code levels, do the following:  The Hardware Management Console site is displayed.   If you prefer, you can contact service and support. Step 4. Apply the HMC machine code update To apply the HMC machine code update, do the following:  For instructions, see . Then continue with the next step. Step 5. Verify that the HMC machine code update installed successfully To verify that the HMC machine code update installed correctly, do the following:  select the network connection on the HMC. Retry the firmware update using a different repository. If the problem persists, contact your next level of support.         
 Backing up critical  data You can back up important console information to a USB Flash Memory Device, DVD, via FTP, or over the network.  Using the , you can back up all important data, such as the following: User-preference files User information  platform-configuration files  log files  updates through Install Corrective Service The Backup function saves the  data stored on the  hard disk to the following: DVD media USB Flash Memory Device Remote system mounted to the  file system (such as NFS) Remote site through FTP Back up the  after you have made changes to the  or to the information associated with logical partitions.   Before data can be saved to removable media, the media must be formatted. To format media, click  and follow the steps. To back up the , you must be a member of one of the following roles: Super administrator Operator Service representative To back up the  critical data, do the following:  Parent topic:          
 Postconfiguration steps After you have installed and configured the HMC, back up HMC data as necessary. You can back up important console information to a USB Flash Memory Device, DVD, via FTP, or over the network. You can use your HMC to back up the entire hard disk drive of your  to a remote system.  Parent topic:          
 Backing up the entire HMC hard disk drive to a remote system You can use your HMC to back up the entire hard disk drive of your  to a remote system.  Your remote system must have Network File System (NFS) or Secure Shell (ssh) configured, and this network must be accessible from the . To complete this task, you must shut down and reboot the . Use only the HMC to perform these tasks.  To back up the  hard disk drive to a remote system, you must be a member of one of the following roles:Super administrator Operator Service representative To back up the  hard drive to a remote system, do the following:   The interface numbering (eth0, eth1) may not match the numbering recorded in Step 1. The MAC address listed can be used to identify the desired interface. For more information, see . If you have modified the startup sequence by pressing F1 when you powered on the , you must reboot the  and change the settings again. When you change the startup sequence, ensure that your hard disk is listed in the startup sequence before the network interface.  Parent topic:          
 Identifying the Ethernet port defined as eth0 Your Ethernet connection to the managed server must be made using the Ethernet port that is defined as eth0 on your . If you have not installed any additional Ethernet adapters in the PCI slots on your , the primary integrated Ethernet port is always defined as eth0 or eth1 on your HMC, if you intend to use the HMC as a DHCP server for your managed systems. If you have installed additional Ethernet adapters in the PCI slots, the port that is defined as eth0 depends on the location and type of Ethernet adapters you have installed. These are general rules and may not apply for all configurations. The following table describes the rules for Ethernet placement by HMC type.  HMC type Rules for Ethernet placement Rack-mounted HMCs with two integrated Ethernet ports The  supports only one additional Ethernet adapter.  If an additional Ethernet adapter is installed, that port is defined as eth0. In this case, the primary integrated Ethernet port is then defined as eth1, and the secondary integrated Ethernet port is defined as eth2. If the Ethernet adapter is a dual port Ethernet adapter then port labeled Act/Link A will normally be eth0. The port labeled Act/link B would be eth1. In this case, the primary integrated Ethernet port is then defined as eth2, and the secondary integrated Ethernet port is defined as eth3.  If no adapters are installed, the primary integrated Ethernet port is defined as eth0. Stand-alone models with a single integrated Ethernet port The definitions depend upon the type of Ethernet adapter you have installed: If only one Ethernet adapter is installed, that adapter is defined as eth0. If the Ethernet adapter is a dual port Ethernet adapter, then the port labeled Act/link A will be eth0. The port labeled Act/link B would be eth1. In this case, the primary integrated Ethernet port is then defined as eth2.   If no adapters are installed, the integrated Ethernet port is defined as eth0.  If multiple Ethernet adapters have been installed, see . Parent topic:          
 Determining the interface name for an Ethernet adapter If you configure the HMC as a DHCP server, that server can operate only on the network interface card (NIC) connectors that the HMC identifies as eth0 and eth1. You might also need to determine which NIC connector you need to plug the Ethernet cable into. Learn more about determining which NIC connectors the HMC identifies as eth0 and eth1. To determine the name the HMC has assigned to an Ethernet adapter, do the following: Parent topic:          
 Configuring the HMC network types Configure your HMC so that it can communicate to the managed system, logical partitions, remote users, and service and support.  Your Ethernet connection to the managed server must be made using the Ethernet port that is defined as eth0 on your . If you configure the HMC as a DHCP server, that server can operate only on the network interface card (NIC) connectors that the HMC identifies as eth0 and eth1. You might also need to determine which NIC connector you need to plug the Ethernet cable into. Learn more about determining which NIC connectors the HMC identifies as eth0 and eth1. Learn how to specify the media speed which includes the speed and duplex mode of the Ethernet adapter. A private service network consists of the  and the managed systems. A private service network is restricted to consoles and the systems they manage, and is separate from your company network. An open network consists of your private service network and your company network. An open network might contain network endpoints in addition to consoles and managed systems, and might span across multiple subnets and network devices. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides an automated method for dynamic client configuration.  Learn how to set your IPv4 address on the . Learn how to set your IPv6 address on the . Learn how to configure the HMC so that it uses only IPv6 addresses. Parent topic:  Configuring HMC settings to use an open network to connect to the managed system Configure the HMC so that it can connect to and manage a managed system using an open network. To configure the HMC network settings so that it can connect to the managed system using an open network, do the following: Task Where to find related information 1. Decide which interface you want to use for your managed system.  is preferred. 2. Identify the Ethernet ports for your HMC. 3. Configure the Ethernet adapter by performing the following tasks:    a. Set the media speed.  b. Select the open network type.  c. Set static addresses.  d. Set the firewall.  e. Configure the default gateway.  f. Configure DNS. 4. Configure additional adapters, if you have them.   5. Test the connection between the managed server and the HMC. Configuring HMC settings to use a private network to connect to the managed system Configure the HMC so that it can connect to and manage a managed system using a private network. To configure the HMC network settings so that it can connect to the managed system using a private network, do the following: Task Where to find related information 1. Decide which interface you want to use for your managed system.  2. Identify the Ethernet ports for your HMC. 3. Configure the HMC as a DHCP server. 4. Test the connection between the managed server and the HMC. Configuring HMC settings to use an open network to connect to logical partitions To configure the HMC network settings so that it can connect to logical partitions using an open network, do the following: Task Where to find related information 1. Decide which interface you want to use for your managed system.  2. Identify the Ethernet ports for your HMC. 3. Configure the Ethernet adapter by performing the following tasks:    a. Set the media speed.  b. Select the open network type.  c. Set static addresses.  d. Set the firewall.  e. Configure the default gateway.  f. Configure DNS. 4. Configure additional adapters, if you have them.   5. Test the connection between the managed server and the HMC. Configuring HMC settings to use an open network to connect to remote users To configure the HMC network settings so that it can connect to remote users using an open network, do the following: Task Where to find related information 1. Decide which interface you want to use for your managed system.  2. Identify the Ethernet ports for your HMC. 3. Configure the Ethernet adapter by performing the following tasks:    a. Set the media speed.  b. Select the open network type.  c. Set static addresses.  d. Set the firewall.  e. Configure the default gateway.  f. Configure DNS.  g. Configure suffixes. 4. Configure additional adapters, if you have them.   Configuring HMC call-home server settings To configure the HMC call-home server settings so that problems can be reported, do the following: Task  Where to find related information 1. Be sure you have all the required customer information                                    2. Configure this HMC to report errors or choose an existing call-home server to report errors 3. Verify that your call-home configuration is working 4. Authorize users to view collected system data 5. Schedule transmission of system data         
 Setting the media speed Learn how to specify the media speed which includes the speed and duplex mode of the Ethernet adapter. The default for the HMC adapter settings is . If this adapter is connected to a LAN switch, you must match the switch port settings. To set the media speed and duplex, complete the following steps:.    Parent topic:          
 Selecting a private or open network A private service network consists of the  and the managed systems. A private service network is restricted to consoles and the systems they manage, and is separate from your company network. An open network consists of your private service network and your company network. An open network might contain network endpoints in addition to consoles and managed systems, and might span across multiple subnets and network devices.  To select a private or public network, do the following:   Parent topic:          
 Configuring the  as a DHCP server Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides an automated method for dynamic client configuration.  To configure the HMC as a DHCP server, do the following: In the navigation area, click . In the Work area, click . The Customize Network Settings window opens. Select the LAN adapter that you want to work with and click . Select  and then select the network type. In the DHCP Server section, select  to enable the  as a DHCP server.  You can configure the HMC to be a DHCP server only on a private network.  If you use an open network, you do not have the option to select the . Enter the address range of the DHCP server. Click . If you configured your HMC to be a DHCP server on a private network, you must verify that your HMC DHCP private network is configured correctly. For information about connecting your HMC to a private network, see .  For more information, see . Parent topic:          
   as a DHCP server You can use the  as a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server.   If you are using IPv6, the discovery process must be done manually. For IPv6, there is no automatic discovery. For more information about how to configure the  as a DHCP server, see . This figure shows a redundant HMC environment with two managed systems. The first HMC is connected to the first port on each FSP, and the redundant HMC is connected to the second port on each HMC. Each HMC is configured as a DHCP server, using a different range of IP addresses. The connections are on separate private networks. As such, it is important to ensure that no FSP port is connected to more than one HMC. Each managed system's FSP port that is connected to an HMC requires a unique IP address. To ensure that each FSP has a unique IP address, use the HMC's built-in DHCP server capability. When the FSP detects the active network link, it issues a broadcast request to locate a DHCP server. When correctly configured, the HMC responds to that request by allocating one of a selected range of addresses.  If you have multiple FSPs, you must have your own LAN switch or hub for the HMC to FSP private network. Alternately, this private segment can exist as several ports in a private virtual LAN (VLAN) on a larger managed switch. If you have multiple private VLANs, you must ensure that they are isolated and that there is not any crossover traffic.  If you have more than one HMC, you must also connect each HMC to the logical partitions, and to each other, on the same open network. This figure shows two HMCs connected to a single managed server on the private network and to three logical partitions on the public network. You can have an additional Ethernet adapter for the HMC to have three network interfaces. You can use this third network as a management network or connect it to the CSM (Cluster Systems Manager) Management Server. For more information about how to configure the  as a DHCP server, see . Parent topic:          
 Types of  network connections Learn how to use the  remote management and service functions using your network. The  supports the following types of logical communications:  Used to perform most of the hardware management functions, in which  issues control function requests through the service processor of the managed system. The connection between the HMC and the service processor is sometimes referred to as the service network. This connection is required for managed system management. Used to collect platform-related information (hardware error events, hardware inventory) from the operating systems running in the logical partitions, as well as to coordinate certain platform activities (dynamic LPAR, concurrent repair) with those operating systems. If you want to use service and error notification features, you must create this connection. Provides remote users with access to  functions. Remote users can access the  in the following ways: By using the Web browser to access all the  GUI functions remotely By using Secure Socket Shell (SSH) to access the  command line functions remotely Used to transmit data, such as hardware error reports, inventory data, and microcode updates, to and from your service provider. You can use this communications path to make automatic service calls. Your HMC can support up to four separate physical Ethernet interfaces, depending on the model. The stand-alone version of the HMC supports only three HMC interfaces, using one integrated Ethernet adapter and up to two plug-in adapters. Use each of these interfaces in the following ways:   Even though the network interfaces into the service processors are encrypted for the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) Protocol and password-protected, having a separate dedicated network can provide a higher level of security for these interfaces. An open network interface would typically be used for the network connection between the  and the logical partitions on the managed systems, for the -to-logical partition communications. You can also use this open network interface to manage the HMC remotely. Optionally, you can use a third interface to connect to logical partitions and manage the HMC remotely. This interface can also be used as a separate  connection to different groups of logical partitions. For example, you might want to have an administrative LAN that is separate from the LAN on which all the usual business transactions are running. Remote administrators could access s and other managed units using this method. Sometimes the logical partitions are in different network security domains, perhaps behind a firewall, and you might want to have different  network connections into each of those two domains. Web browser requirements for HMCThe Hardware Management Console (HMC) is supported by Microsoft Internet Explorer (IE) version 6.0 and 7.0, Firefox version 1.5.0.7 and 2.0. If your browser is configured to use an Internet proxy, a local IP addresses should be included in the exception list. Consult your network administrator for more information on the exception list. If you still need to use the proxy to get to the HMC, enable Use HTTP 1.1 through proxy connections under the Advanced tab in your Internet Options window.  For Firefox version 2.0, ensure that you enable the JavaScript options to raise or lower windows and move or resize existing windows. This feature allows you to switch easily between HMC tasks. Perform the steps to enable the Javascript options:Select Tools and Click Options Select Content and Click Advanced Select Move or resize existing windows and Raise or lower windows Click OK Session cookies need to be enabled in order for ASMI to work when connected to HMC remotely. The asm proxy code saves session information and uses it. Follow the steps to enable the session cookies. Enabling session cookies in Internet Explorer.Select Tools and Click Internet Options Select Privacy and Click Advanced Ensure that the Always allow session cookies is checked. If not, select the Override automatic cookie handling and select Always allow session cookies. Select Prompt under First-party Cookies and Third-party Cookies Click OK. Enabling session cookies in Firefox.Select Tools and click Options Click Cookies Select Allow sites to set cookies. Select Exceptions and add HMC. Click OK. The HMC can be configured to use open and private networks. Private networks allow the use of a selected range of nonroutable IP-addresses. A public, or "open" network describes a network connection between the HMC to any logical partitions and to other systems on your regular network. You can use the  as a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server.  Parent topic:          
 Private and open networks in the HMC environment The HMC can be configured to use open and private networks. Private networks allow the use of a selected range of nonroutable IP-addresses. A public, or "open" network describes a network connection between the HMC to any logical partitions and to other systems on your regular network. Private networksThe only devices on the HMC private network are the HMC itself and each of the managed systems to which that HMC is connected. The HMC is connected to each managed system's FSP (Flexible Service Processor).  On most systems, the FSP provides two Ethernet ports labeled  and . This allows you to connect up to two HMCs.  Some systems have a dual-FSP option. In this situation, the second FSP acts as a "redundant" backup. The basic setup requirements for a system with two FSPs are essentially the same as those without a second FSP. The HMC must be connected to each FSP, so additional network hardware is required (for example, a LAN switch or hub) when there is more than one FSP or there are multiple managed systems.  Each FSP port on the managed system must be connected to only one HMC. Public networks The open network can be connected to a firewall or router for connecting to the Internet. Connecting to the Internet allows the HMC to "call home" when there are any hardware errors that need to be reported. The HMC itself provides its own firewall on each of its network interfaces. A basic firewall is automatically configured when you run the HMC Guided Setup wizard, but you customize your firewall settings after the initial HMC installation and configuration. Parent topic:          
  network connections You can use different types of network connections to connect your  to managed systems. For more information about how to configure the  to connect to a network, see . For more information about using the  on a network, see the following: Learn how to use the  remote management and service functions using your network. Learn more about the connectivity options you have when you use the call-home server. All the communications are handled through TCP sockets initiated by the HMC and use a high-grade SSL to encrypt the data that is transmitted. The destination TCP/IP addresses are published  so that external firewalls can be configured to allow these connections.   Determine the IP address version used when the HMC connects to your service provider. Learn about the addresses the HMC uses when it is using Internet SSL connectivity. A virtual private network (VPN) provides security when connecting to remote support. Lists the servers used by an HMC when the HMC is configured to use Internet VPN connectivity. If you want to use a modem to connect to remote support, you must provide a dedicated analog line to connect to the HMC modem. The HMC uses the modem to dial the global network and to connect to IBM service and support. This topic describes what you need to know when you decide to use more than one call-home server. Parent topic:          
 Configuring the  Configure network connections, security, service applications, and some user preferences. Depending on the level of customization you intend to apply to your  configuration, you have several options for setting up your  to suit your needs. The  is a tool on the  designed to ease the setup of the . You can choose a fast path through the wizard to quickly create the recommended  environment, or you can choose to fully explore the available settings that the wizard guides you through. You can also perform the configuration steps without the aid of the wizard by .  Before you start, gather the required configuration information that you will need to complete the steps successfully. See  for a list of the required information.  In most cases, the  can be set up to operate effectively using many of the default settings. Use this fast path checklist to prepare the  for service. When you have completed these steps, your  will be configured as a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server in a private (directly connected) network.  This section provides a complete list of all  configuration tasks, guiding you through the process of configuring your . Choose this option if you prefer not to use the . Parent topic:          
 Configuring the  by using the HMC menus  This section provides a complete list of all  configuration tasks, guiding you through the process of configuring your . Choose this option if you prefer not to use the . You must restart your  for the configuration settings to take effect, so you might want to print this checklist and keep it with you as you configure your . Before you begin configuring the HMC using the HMC menus, be sure to complete the configuration preparation activity described in . Task Where to find related information 1. Start the HMC. 2. Set the date and time.   3. Change predefined passwords.   4. Create additional users and return to this checklist when you have completed this step.   5. Configure network connections.  6. If you are using an open network and a fixed IP address, set identification information.   7. If you are using an open network and a fixed IP address, configure a routing entry as the default gateway. 8. If you are using an open network and a fixed IP address, configure domain name services. 9. If you are using a fixed IP address and have DNS enabled, configure domain suffixes. 10. Configure your server to connect to  service and support and return to this checklist when you have completed this step.  11. Connect the managed system to a power source.    12. Set passwords for the managed system, and each of the ASMI passwords (general and admin) 13. Access ASMI to set the date and time on the managed system.    14. Start the managed system and return to this checklist when you have completed this step.   15. Ensure that you have one logical partition on the managed system.    16. Optional: add another managed system and return to this checklist when you have completed this step.   17. Optional: If you are installing a new server with your , configure the logical partitions and install the operating system.   18. If you are not installing a new server at this time, perform optional postconfiguration tasks to further customize your configuration.    You can long in to the HMC and choose which language you want to be displayed in the interface. Use the default User ID hscroot and password abc123 to log on to the HMC for the first time. The battery-operated clock keeps the date and time for the . You might need to reset the console date and time if the battery is replaced, or if you physically move your system to a different time zone. Learn how to change the date and time for the . Configure your HMC so that it can communicate to the managed system, logical partitions, remote users, and service and support.  In an open network, a firewall is used to control outside access to your company network. The  also has a firewall on each of its Ethernet adapters. To control the  remotely or give remote access to others, modify the firewall settings of the Ethernet adapter on the HMC that is connected to your open network. Learn how to configure a routing entry as the default gateway. This task is available for those using an open network. If you plan to set up an open network, configure domain name services. The list of domain suffixes is used to resolve an IP address starting with the first entry in the list. You can configure your HMC so that it uses LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) remote authentication. You can configure the HMC so that it uses Key Distribution Center (KDC) servers for Kerberos remote authentication.   Configure your HMC so that it can notify you when problems occur.  You must set passwords for both your server and Advanced System Management (ASM). Read more about how to use the HMC interface to set these passwords. This option enables you to verify that you are properly connected to the network. Parent topic:          
 Preparing for  configuration Use this section to gather required configuration settings that you need to know before you begin the configuration steps.  To configure the HMC, you must understand the related concepts, make decisions and prepare information. This section describes the information you will need to connect your HMC to the following:Service processors in your managed systems Logical partitions on those managed systems Remote workstations Service, to implement “call-home” functions  Additional connectivity and security information is available. For more information, see   To prepare for HMC configuration, do the following: Obtain and install the latest level of the HMC code version you want to install.  Determine the physical location of the HMC in relation to the servers it will manage. If the HMC is more than 25 feet from its managed system, you must provide web browser access to the HMC from the managed system's location so that service personnel can access the HMC. Identify the servers that the HMC will manage. Determine whether you will use a private or an open network to manage servers.  If you decide to use a private network, use DHCP, unless you are using a Cluster Systems Management (CSM) configuration. CSM does not support IPv6. To access CSM, you must have two networks. For more information about CSM, see the documentation that was provided with that feature. For more information about private and open networks, see . If you will use an open network to manage an FSP, you must set the FSP's address manually through the Advanced System Management Interface menus. A private, non-routable network is recommended. If you have two HMCs, designate a primary and secondary HMC. The primary HMC should be physically closer to the machine, and should be the HMC that is configured to call home. Determine the network settings that you will need to connect the HMC to remote workstations, logical partitions, and network devices.  Define how the HMC will “call home.” Call home options include either over an outbound-only Secure Socket Layer (SSL) Internet connection, a modem, or a Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection. Determine the HMC users that you will create and their passwords, as well which roles they will be given. You must assign the hscroot and hscpe users a password. Document the following company contact information that will be needed when configuring call home: Company name Administrator contact Email address Telephone numbers Fax numbers The street address of the HMC's physical location If you plan to use email to notify operators or systems administrators when information is sent to IBM Service through call-home, identify the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) server and the email addresses you will use. You must define the following passwords:The access password that will be used to authenticate the HMC to the FSP The ASMI password that will be used for the  user The ASMI password that will be used for the  user Create the passwords when you connect from the HMC to a new server for the first time.  If the HMC is a redundant or second HMC, obtain the HMC User password and be prepared to enter it when connecting the first time to the managed server's FSP. When you have completed these preparation steps, complete the . Parent topic:          
 Preinstallation configuration worksheet for the HMC Use this worksheet to have the installation information you need ready for the installation.  Network SettingsLAN Interface:  Choose the available adapters (such as eth0, eth1) that will be used by this HMC to connect to managed systems, logical partitions, service and support, and remote users.  See  for more information. Connectivity from the HMC can either be on a private or open network.  Ethernet Adapter Speed and Duplex Enter the desired Ethernet adapter speed and duplex mode. The autodetection option determines which option is optimal if you are not sure which speed and duplex would produce optimum results for your hardware.  Default = Autodetection Media speed specifies the speed in duplex mode of an Ethernet adapter. Select Autodetection unless you have a requirement to specify a fixed media speed. Any device connected to the FSP (switches/HMC), must be set to Auto (Speed) / Auto (Duplex) mode, as it is the default FSP setting and cannot be changed.   eth0 eth1 eth2 eth3 Media speed (Autodetection, 10/100/1000 Full/Half Duplex)          For more information about private and open networks, see .  eth0 eth1 eth2 eth3 Specify  or  network for each adapter         Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides an automated method for dynamic client configuration. You can specify this HMC as a DHCP server. If this is the first or only HMC on the private network, enable the HMC as a DHCP server. When you do this, the managed systems on the network will be automatically configured and discovered by the HMC. For Ethernet adapters specified as Private networks, complete the following table:  eth0 eth1 Do you want to specify this HMC as a DHCP server? (yes/no)     If "yes," record the IP address range you want to use     For Ethernet adapters specified as open networks, complete the following tables. For more information about the different Internet Protocol versions, see . Using IPv6 If you are using IPv6, talk to your network administrator and decide how you want to obtain IP addresses. Then, complete the following tables:  eth0 eth1 eth2 eth3 Are you using a statically-assigned IP address? If yes, record that address here.           eth0 eth1 eth2 eth3 Are you getting IP addresses from a DHCP server? (Yes/No)           eth0 eth1 eth2 eth3 Are you getting IP addresses from an IPv6 router?         For more information about setting IPv6 addresses, see . For more information about using only IPv6 addresses, see . Using IPv4 Complete the following tables for Ethernet adapters specified as open networks using IPv4.  eth0 eth1 eth2 eth3 Do you want to obtain an IP address automatically? (yes/no)         If no, list the specified address below: TCP/IP Interface Address:         TCP/IP Interface Network Mask:         Firewall Settings: Would you like to configure HMC firewall settings? (yes/no)         If yes, list the applications and IP addresses that should be allowed through the firewall:                                                   TCP/IP Information A unique TCP/IP address is required for each node, both for Support Element (SE) and Hardware Management Console (HMC). The assigned network mask is used to generate a unique address, by default, for the local private LAN. If the nodes will be connected into a larger network with an administered TCP/IP address, you can specify the TCP/IP address to be used.  The default is generated by the system. Firewall Settings HMC firewall settings create a security barrier that allows or denies access to specific network applications on the HMC. You can specify these control settings individually for each physical network interface, allowing you control over which HMC network applications can be accessed on each network. If you have configured at least one adapter as an Open network adapter, you must  provide the following additional information to enable your HMC to access the LAN:Local host information HMC host name:   Domain name:   Description of HMC:   Gateway Address: (nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn)   Gateway device:   Do you want to use DNS? (yes/no)   If “yes”, specify DNS Server Search Order below: 1.   2.   Domain suffix search order: 1.   2.   Local Host Information To identify your Hardware Management Console (HMC) to the network, enter the HMC's host name and domain name. Unless you are using only short host names on your network, enter a fully qualified host name.  Domain name example: name.yourcompany.com Gateway Information To define a default gateway, fill in the TCP/IP address to be used for routing IP packets.  The gateway address informs each computer or network device when to send data if the target station is not located on the same subnet as the source. DNS Enablement The Domain Name System (DNS) is used to provide a standard naming convention for locating IP-based computers. By defining DNS servers, you can use host names to identify servers and Hardware Management Consoles (HMCs) rather than IP addresses. DNS Server Search Order Enter the IP addresses of DNS servers to be searched for mapping the host names and IP addresses. This search order is available only when DNS is enabled.  Domain Suffix Search Order Enter the domain suffixes you are using. The HMC uses domain suffixes to append to unqualified names for DNS searches. Suffixes are searched in the order in which they are listed. This search order is available only when DNS is enabled. Email notificationList email contact information if you wish to be notified by email when hardware problem events occur on your system. Email Addresses:     SMTP server:   Port:   Errors to be notified: Only call-home problem events   All problem events   SMTP server  Type the simple mail transfer Protocol (SMTP) address of the server to be notified of a system event. An example of an SMTP server name is relay.us.ibm.com.   SMTP is the Protocol used to send email. When using SMTP, a client sends a message and communicates with the SMTP server using the SMTP Protocol.  If you do not know the SMTP address of your server or are not sure, contact your network administrator.    Port Type the port number of the server to be notified of a system event, or use the default port. Email addresses to be notified Enter configured email addresses to be notified when a system event occurs.  Select  to only receive notification when events occur that create a call-home function.  Select  to receive notification when any events occur. Service Contact InformationCompany name     Administrator name   Email address   Phone number   Alternate phone number   Fax number   Alternate fax number     Street address   Street address 2   City or locality   State   Postal code   Country or region     Location of HMC (if same as above administrator address, specify “same”):   Street address   Street address 2   City of locality   State   Postal code    Country or region   Service authorization and connectivitySelect the type of connection to contact your service provider.  For a description of these methods including security characteristics and configuration requirements, see ._____ Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) through the Internet _____ Dialup from the local HMC _____ Virtual private network (VPN) through the Internet Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) through the Internet: If you have an existing Internet connection from your HMC, you can use it to call your service provider. You can connect directly to your service provider by using encrypted Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) using the existing Internet connection. select  if you want to configure the use of encrypted SSL using an indirect connection using an SSL Proxy. Use SSL proxy? (yes/no)   If yes, list information below: Address:   Port:   Authenticate with the SSL Proxy?   If yes, list information below: User:   Password:   Internet connection Protocol used For more information about the different Internet Protocols, see . ___ IPv4 ___ IPv6 ___ IPv4 and IPv6 Dial-up from the local HMC Enter the dial-up information to configure your local modem.  Specify which telephone numbers to use to dial your service provider. When you are connecting, the telephone numbers will be dialed in the order in which they are listed.Dial prefix: ________________ Tone: ________________ Pulse: ________________ Wait for dial tone? ________________ Enable speaker?  ________________ Virtual Private Network (VPN) If you have an existing Internet connection from your HMC, you can use it to call your service provider. You can connect directly to your service provider by virtual private network (VPN) using the existing Internet connection. If you select Virtual Private Network (VPN) through the Internet, you will not be directed to select any other options. Call-home serversDetermine which HMCs you want to configure to connect to service and support as call-home servers. For more information about using multiple call-home servers, see . ___ This HMC ___ Another HMC If you checked , list the other HMCs that have been configured as call-home servers here: List of HMC host names or IP addresses that have been configured as call-home servers           Additional Support BenefitsMy Systems and Premium Search List your IBM ID __________________________ List any additional IBM IDs __________________________ In order to access valuable, customized support information in the My Systems and Premium Search sections of the Electronic Services website, Customers must register their IBM ID with this system. If you do not already have one, you can register for an IBM ID at: www.ibm.com/account/profile.  IBM provides personalized Web functions that use information collected by the IBM® Electronic Service Agent™ application. To use these functions, you must first register on the IBM Registration website at .  To authorize users to use the Electronic Service Agent information to personalize the Web functions, enter your IBM ID that you registered on the IBM Registration website. Go to  to see the valuable support information available to customers that register an IBM ID with their systems. Parent topic:          
 Choosing an Internet Protocol Determine the IP address version used when the HMC connects to your service provider. Most users use Internet Protocol Version 4 (IPv4) to connect to a service provider. IPv4 addresses appear in the format representing the four bytes of the IPv4 address, separated by periods (for example, 9.60.12.123) to access the Internet. You can also use Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) to connect to a service provider. IPv6 is often used by network administrators to ensure unique address space. If you are unsure of the Internet Protocol used by your installation, contact your network administrator. For more information about using each version, see  and .  Parent topic:          
 Setting the IPv4 address Learn how to set your IPv4 address on the .   Parent topic:          
 Setting the IPv6 address Learn how to set your IPv6 address on the . Parent topic:          
 Using only IPv6 addresses Learn how to configure the HMC so that it uses only IPv6 addresses. After you click OK, you must reboot your HMC for these changes to take effect. Parent topic:          
 Deciding which connectivity method to use for the call-home server Learn more about the connectivity options you have when you use the call-home server. You can configure the HMC to send hardware service related information to IBM by using a LAN-based Internet connection, or a dial-up connection over a modem.  You have two communication choices when configuring the LAN based Internet connection.  The first choice is to use standard Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). The SSL communication can be enabled to connect to the Internet through your proxy server. SSL connectivity is more likely to be compliant with corporate security guidelines. Your second option is to use a VPN connection.  If your open network interface connection uses only Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6), you cannot use Internet VPN to connect to support. For more information about the Protocols used, see . The advantages to using an Internet connection can include: Significantly faster transmission speed Reduced customer expense (for example, the cost of a dedicated analog telephone line) Greater reliability   The following security characteristics are in effect, regardless of the connectivity method chosen: Remote Support Facility requests are always initiated from the HMC to IBM. An inbound connection is never initiated from the IBM® Service Support System. All data transferred between the HMC and the IBM Service Support System are encrypted using a high-grade encryption. Depending upon the connectivity method chosen, it is encrypted using either SSL or IPSec Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP).  When initializing the encrypted connection the HMC authenticates the target destination as that of the IBM Service Support System. Data sent to the IBM Service Support System consists solely of information about hardware problems and configuration. No application or customer data is transmitted to IBM. Using an indirect Internet connection with a proxy serverIf your installation requires the HMC to be on a private network, you may be able to connect indirectly to the Internet using an SSL proxy, which can forward requests to the Internet. One of the other potential advantages of using an SSL proxy is that the proxy may support logging and audit facilities.  To forward SSL sockets, the proxy server must support the basic proxy header functions (as described in RFC 2616) and the CONNECT method. Optionally, basic proxy authentication (RFC 2617) may be configured so that the HMC authenticates before attempting to forward sockets through the proxy server.  For the HMC to communicate successfully, the client's proxy server must allow connections to port 443. You can configure your proxy server to limit the specific IP addresses to which the HMC can connect. See  for a list of IP addresses. Using a direct Internet SSL connectionIf your HMC can be connected to the Internet, and the external firewall can be set up to allow established TCP packets to flow outbound to the destinations described in ,  you can use a direct Internet connection. Parent topic:          
 Internet SSL address lists Learn about the addresses the HMC uses when it is using Internet SSL connectivity. The HMC uses the following IPv4 addresses to contact IBM service and support when it is configured to use Internet SSL connectivity. The following IPv4 addresses are for all locations: 129.42.26.224 129.42.34.224 129.42.42.224 170.225.15.41 129.42.56.216 129.42.58.216 129.42.60.216 The following IPv4 addresses are for the Americas: 129.42.160.48 129.42.160.49 207.25.252.200 207.25.252.204 The following IPv4 addresses are for all locations other than the Americas: 129.42.160.48 129.42.160.50 207.25.252.200 207.25.252.205  When configuring a firewall to allow an HMC to connect to these servers, only the IP addresses specific to the geographic region are required. The HMC uses the following IPv6 addresses to contact IBM service and support when it is configured to use Internet SSL connectivity: 2620:0:6C0:1::1000  2620:0:6C1:1::1000  2620:0:6C2:1::1000 Parent topic:          
 Using multiple call-home servers This topic describes what you need to know when you decide to use more than one call-home server. To avoid a single point of failure, configure the HMC to use multiple call-home servers. The first available call-home server attempts to handle each service event. If the connection or transmission fails with this call-home server, the service request is retried using the other available call-home servers until one is successful or all have been tried.  The connected HMC that has been identified by problem analysis to be the primary analyzing console for a given managed system will report the problem. This primary console will also replicate the problem report to any secondary HMC. This secondary HMC must be recognized on the network by the primary HMC. A secondary HMC is recognized by the primary HMC as an additional call-home server when:The primary HMC is configured to use "discovered" call-home servers and the call-home server is either on the same subnet as the primary HMC or it manages the same system The call-home server has been manually added to the list of call-home server consoles available for outbound connectivity Parent topic:          
 Installing and configuring the Hardware Management Console  Describes how to install the HMC hardware, connect it to your managed system, and configure it for use. You can perform these tasks yourself, or contact a service provider to perform these tasks for you. You might be charged a fee by the service provider for this service. Read about new or significantly changed information in the Installing and configuring the HMC topic since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF of this information. Learn about the tasks associated with different HMC installation and configuration tasks. Learn about the network settings you can use on the HMC. Use this section to gather required configuration settings that you need to know before you begin the configuration steps.  Use this worksheet to have the installation information you need ready for the installation.  You must set up the HMC hardware before you configure the HMC software. Learn more about setting up a desk-side HMC or a rack-mounted HMC.  Configure network connections, security, service applications, and some user preferences. After you have installed and configured the HMC, back up HMC data as necessary. Updates and upgrades are periodically released for the HMC to add new functionality and to improve existing features. Learn more about the differences between updating, upgrading, and migrating your HMC machine code. Also learn how to perform an HMC machine code update, upgrade, or migration. You can find part locations by using location codes. Use the HMC port location illustrations to map a location code to the HMC port position on the server.         
 What's new in Installing and configuring the HMC Read about new or significantly changed information in the Installing and configuring the HMC topic since the previous update of this topic collection. October 2013Added information about installing monitor and keyboard. Added a note on the system requirement to run Power® Enterprise Pools function. March 2013Added information about HMC port locations. November 2012Added information about configuring the HMC. May 2012Added information about setting up the HMC. May 2011Added information about HMC network connections. February 2010Added information about IBM® Power Systems™ servers that contain the POWER7® processor. Parent topic:          
 PDF files for installing and configuring the HMC You can view and print a PDF of this information. This topic introduces the  () version 7 and describes how to cable the , configure the  software, and upgrade  machine code and system firmware. This publication is for the service representatives and users who perform these tasks. Detailed installation checklists are included. This topic describes, at a high level, how to install and configure the HMC. Parent topic:          
  PDF This topic describes, at a high level, how to install and configure the HMC.    (approximately 3 MB) Saving PDF filesLarge PDF files can be difficult to open online. For best results, save the PDF file to your local drive for viewing or printing. Follow these steps: Right-click the PDF link in your browser. Click the option that saves the PDF locally. Navigate to the directory in which you want to save the PDF file. Click . Saving PDF filesLarge PDF files can be difficult to open online. For best results, save the PDF file to your local drive for viewing or printing. Follow these steps: Right-click the PDF link in your browser. Click the option that saves the PDF locally. Navigate to the directory in which you want to save the PDF file. Click . Downloading You need  installed on your system to view or print these PDF files. You can download a free copy from the . Parent topic:          
 Installation and configuration tasks Learn about the tasks associated with different HMC installation and configuration tasks. This section describes, at a high level, the tasks you must perform when you install and configure your HMC. There are different ways you can install and configure your HMC. Find the situation that best matches the task you want to perform. If you are managing POWER7® processor-based servers, the HMC must be at Version 7.7.2 or later. For more information, see . Parent topic:  Installing and configuring a new HMC with a new server Learn more about the high-level tasks you must perform when installing and configuring a new HMC with a new server. Task Where to find related information 1. Gather information and complete the Preinstallation Configuration Worksheet. 2. Unpack the hardware.   3. Cable the HMC hardware. 4. Power on the HMC by pressing the power button.   5. Log in and launch the HMC web application.   6. Access the Guided setup wizard or use the HMC menus to configure the HMC. 7. Attach the server to the HMC.   Updating and upgrading your HMC code Learn more about the high-level tasks you must perform when you update and upgrade your HMC code. If you have an existing HMC and want to update or upgrade your HMC code, you must complete the following high-level tasks:Task Where to find related information 1. Obtain the upgrade. 2. View the existing HMC machine code level. 3. Back up the managed system’s profile data. 4. Back up HMC data. 5. Record the current HMC configuration information. 6. Record remote command status. 7. Save upgrade data. 8. Upgrade the HMC software. 9. Verify that the HMC machine code upgrade installed successfully Migrating HMC Version 6 code to HMC Version 7 code Learn more about the high-level tasks you must perform when you migrate from an HMC Version 6 to an HMC Version 7. If you have an existing HMC and want to migrate from Version 6 to Version 7, you must complete the following high-level tasks:Task Where to find related information 1. Ensure your HMC hardware supports HMC Version 7 code.   2. Ensure that your HMC code level is 6.12 or higher. If not, you must upgrade your existing HMC code. 3. Upgrade your HMC to Version 7. 4. Optional: upgrade your managed system's firmware level to the highest available level. 2 5. If you have a second HMC, perform steps 1-4 for that HMC.    Adding a second HMC to an existing installation Learn more about the high-level tasks you must perform when adding a second HMC to your managed system. If you have an existing HMC and managed system and want to add a second HMC to this configuration, do the following:Task Where to find related information 1. Ensure your HMC hardware supports HMC Version 7 code.   2. Gather information. 3. Unpack the hardware.   4. Cable the HMC hardware. 5. Power on the HMC by pressing the power button.   6. Log in to the HMC.   7.  The HMC code levels must match.  Change the code on one of the HMCs to match the code on the other. 8. Access the Guided setup wizard or use the HMC menus to configure the HMC. 9. Configure this HMC for service using the Call-Home Setup Wizard. 10. Attach the server to the HMC.           
 Cabling your stand-alone HMC Position the HMC and cable each of the hardware components. If an HMC is used to manage any POWER7® processor-based system, the HMC must be a C05 or later stand-alone HMC.    During the installation and configuration of the HMC, the modem might automatically dial out as the HMC follows routine call-out procedures. This is usual behavior. If you are connecting an optional external modem, do the following:  You can use other connectivity methods to send error information to IBM®.  If you have not already done so, connect the modem data cable to the external HMC modem. Connect the modem data cable to the system port on the HMC that is labeled with the following symbol:  Use the telephone cable to connect the line port of the external modem to the analog telephone jack on your wall. If you are connecting to an optional integrated modem, use the data cable to connect the integrated HMC modem to the appropriate data source. For example, use the telephone cable to connect the HMC modem line port to the analog jack on your wall.   You can use other connectivity methods to send error information to IBM.   Next, you will need to configure your HMC software. Continue with . Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Setting up the HMC You must set up the HMC hardware before you configure the HMC software. Learn more about setting up a desk-side HMC or a rack-mounted HMC.  Position the HMC and cable each of the hardware components. This section describes how to install the 7310-CR4 HMC into a rack. This is a customer task.  This section describes how to install the 7042-CR5, 7042-CR6, 7042-CR7, or 7042-CR8 HMC into a rack.  Learn how to install the monitor and keyboard, which are shipped with the 7042-CR6 HMC, into a rack. This is a customer task. Parent topic:          
 Installing the 7310-CR4 HMC into a rack This section describes how to install the 7310-CR4 HMC into a rack. This is a customer task.  If an HMC is used to manage any POWER7® processor-based system, the HMC must be a CR3, or later, model rack-mounted HMC.  The following is a rear-view of the 7310–CR4: To install the 7310-CR4 HMC into a rack, complete the following steps: Complete a parts inventory. See . Locate the rack-mounting hardware kit and the system rail assemblies that were included with your system unit.    Sliding-rail kit parts  Slide rails  Cable-management arm mounting plate  Cable-management arm  Cable-management bracket  Cable-management support bracket and security tab  Latch strikes (2)  Screws (6)  This system unit is 1 EIA unit high; you will need this information to complete the installation. You might need to complete a parts inventory. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. You might need to determine where to install the system in the rack. This section includes procedures so that you can perform these tasks. To install slide rails into the rack, use this procedure. You might need to install the  on the slide rails. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task.  You might need to install the cable-management arm. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. Learn how to physically install your rack-mounted HMC. Parent topic:          
 Completing a parts inventory You might need to complete a parts inventory. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task.  If you have not done so, complete a parts inventory before proceeding with the installation:  If there are incorrect, missing, or damaged parts, contact your reseller or sales and support. Parent topic:          
 Determining the location You might need to determine where to install the system in the rack. This section includes procedures so that you can perform these tasks.  Before installing the HMC into a rack, complete the following steps:   You can mark the location without using a template. Parent topic:          
 Marking the location without using a rack-mounting template You can mark the location without using a template.  A rack-mounting template is not included with this system. These systems are 1 EIA unit high.  To determine the mounting location, complete the following steps:   An EIA unit on your rack consists of a grouping of three holes.   The self-adhesive dots are used to aid in identifying locations on the rack. If you no longer have any of the dots, use some other form of marking tool to aid you in identifying hole locations (for example, tape, a marker, or pencil). If you are installing slide rails, place a mark or self-adhesive dot on the lower and the middle hole of each EIA unit.    If you are counting the holes, begin with the hole identified by the first dot and count up two holes. Place the second dot next to the third hole. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Installing the monitor and keyboard Learn how to install the monitor and keyboard, which are shipped with the 7042-CR6 HMC, into a rack. This is a customer task. If an HMC is used to manage a POWER7® processor-based system, the HMC must be at CR3, or later, it must be a rack-mounted HMC model. The IBM eserver 7316-TF3 is a 17 inch, flat-panel, and rack-mounted monitor and keyboard tray. A special keyboard, that is available for a variety of languages, fits inside the front of the keyboard tray. The monitor and keyboard tray occupy 1 Electronics Industries Association (EIA) unit 1 of space in a rack cabinet. You can install a console switch behind the tray to attach more than one server to the flat panel monitor and keyboard. To install the 7042-CR6 HMC into a rack, complete the following steps:  Installing the rails in the rack is a complex procedure. To install the rails correctly, you must perform each task in the following order.  Complete a parts inventory. For instruction, see . Locate the rack-mounting hardware kit and the system rail assemblies that were included with your system unit.     One keyboard tray with built-in flat panel monitor  Outer rails (2)  Rail alignment spacer (1)  Right-side console-switch mounting bracket (1)  Left-side console-switch mounting bracket (1)  Keyboard with built-in pointing device (1)  Miscellaneous Hardware kit: 12 cage nuts, 12 clip nuts, 10 philips screws, 4 (8-32) screws, and 2 thumbscrews.  1.8 m (6 ft) power cord (1)  2.4 m (8 ft) International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) connector power cable (1)  Keyboard extension cable (1)  Mouse extension cable (1)  The CD containing Windows keyboard and mouse drivers (not for use with Eserver pSeries systems or any AIX, Linux, or OS/400-based system)  Use the following tools to install the flat panel rack-mounted monitor and keyboard:Scissors Philips screwdriver Flat-head screwdriver You might need to complete a parts inventory. You can mark the location without using a template. Learn how to install the monitor and keyboard that are shipped with the 7042-CR6 HMC into a rack. Learn how to install the optional console switch. Parent topic:          
 Installing the monitor and keyboard into a rack Learn how to install the monitor and keyboard that are shipped with the 7042-CR6 HMC into a rack. The IBM 7316-TF3 17-inch, flat panel, rack-mounted, monitor and keyboard occupies 1.75 inches (1 EIA) of rack-mounting space in a rack cabinet. You can use the brackets that are provided with this kit to install an optional console switch in the same rack-mounting space as the monitor console kit. To install the monitor and keyboard of the 7042-CR6 HMC into a rack, complete the following steps:  Remove the rack doors and side panels to provide easy access for installation. Complete the following steps to install the monitor and keyboard into a rack: Select a location in the rack for the monitor and keyboard tray. For more information, see . Install 4 cage nuts (on square-holed rack flanges) or 4 clip nuts (round-holed rack flanges) in the same EIA positions on the front and rear of the rack. If you plan to install the optional console switch, install a cage nut or clip nut in the center-rear position as shown in the following illustration. Loosen the two rail-adjustment screws that are located on each of the outer slide rails. Extend the rails to the maximum outward adjustment. Adjust the outer slide-rail brackets to fit the depth of the rack cabinet. Then, attach the front of the slide-rail brackets to fit the depth of the rack cabinet by using four screws from the miscellaneous hardware kit. The screws should be finger-tight to allow adjustment of the rails.  Ensure that the slide-rail brackets extend outside of the rack-cabinet mounting flanges. Do not install screws in the middle holes on the front or rear of the slide-rail brackets. These holes will be used to attach thumbscrews or optional console-switch mounting brackets, respectively, later in this procedure. Use the four screws from the miscellaneous hardware kit and finger-tight them from the rear of the slide-rail brackets to the rack cabinet. Ensure that the slide-rail brackets extend outside of the rack-cabinet mounting flanges. Tighten the two rail-adjustment screws on each of the outer rails that you loosened in step  Insert the rail-alignment spacer into the slide-rail middle holes. Ensure that the rail-alignment spacer wraps around the rails. Tighten the front four screws and then, remove the spacer. Extend the inner part of the rails mounted in the rack, and then, slide the ball-bearing assemblies forward to the front of the rails. Slide the flat-panel monitor and keyboard tray into the ball-bearing assemblies in the rails. Press the release latches and push the flat-panel monitor and keyboard tray completely into the rack. You may experience some resistance initially, as the ball-bearing assemblies align between the inner and outer rails. Pull out the tray halfway, and then, push it back to seat the tray in the rails. Perform this a few times to ensure that the tray moves smoothly in the rails.    The video cable is connected to the flat-panel monitor. When you install the tray in the rack cabinet, ensure that you do not pinch or cut the video cable. Push the tray into the rack and tighten the four rear slide-rail bracket screws. Place the keyboard on a stable flat surface and remove the two adhesive rubber pads located at each end of the bottom of the new keyboard. Do not leave the rubber pads on the keyboard, because the rubber pads might extend into the space below the tray.  Do not extend the keyboard feet. The flat-panel monitor screen might be damaged if the feet is extended when the monitor is closed. Pull the tray out of the rack until it is extended fully on the rails. Lift the front of the flat-panel monitor, then raise the monitor to the full upright position. Insert the keyboard into the tray. Then, route the keyboard-and-mouse cable through the cord clip on the bottom of the tray, up through the opening on the right side of the tray, and toward the cable-management arm. Pull out the full length of the cable through the opening. Place the keyboard and mouse cables on the tray behind the monitor. Ensure that the cables do not obstruct devices in the rack when the tray is pushed into its position. In the following steps, you will route the cables through the cable-management arm. Lower the monitor to the down position and then push the tray all the way into the rack. Use the thumbscrews to secure the front of the tray into the rack. From the rear of the rack, remove the shipping straps that holds the cable-management arm into the tray. Route the keyboard and mouse cables through the cable-management arm. Use the existing cable straps to secure the cables. Remove the rail-adjustment screw that is located closest to the rear of the rack from the left-slide rail. Use a screw to attach the cable-management arm to the rail. Connect the video, keyboard, and mouse connectors to either a server or optional console switch in the rack cabinet. If you are installing the optional console switch, see  and complete the steps described. If not, follow the procedure from  to complete the installation of your monitor and keyboard tray. Connect the power cord to the short jumper cord on the cable-management arm. Connect all cables and signal connectors to the correct device or connector. Ensure that all power switches are turned off. Connect the power cord to a grounded electrical outlet or power distribution unit (PDU).  Ensure that the voltage of the local electrical supply is in the range 100 - 240 volt ac, before you connect the ac power cord to the dc adapter outlet. Extend the tray from the front of the rack cabinet. Route cables within the rack cabinet, and secure them with cable straps. Parent topic:          
 Installing the console switch (optional) Learn how to install the optional console switch. You can use the console switch to connect more than one server to a single monitor and keyboard. The console switch option is available separately, but custom mounting brackets for the switch are available with the installation kit.  By installing the console switch behind the monitor and keyboard tray, both the monitor and keyboard tray can occupy the same space in the rack. To install the console switch behind the tray, use the brackets provided with the installation kit. Complete the following steps to install the console switch behind the tray: Use two 8-32 screws to attach the right and left side brackets to the right-side and left-side of the console switch respectively.  The left-side bracket has a channel to route the power, video, keyboard, and mouse cables. Ensure that you attach the brackets to the console switch so that the channel on the left-side bracket faces upward. Install the console switch behind the flat panel monitor and keyboard tray by using four (two on each side) philips screws supplied in your miscellaneous hardware kit. Route the power, video, keyboard, and mouse cables through the channel in the left-side bracket on the console switch. Then, connect the video, keyboard, and mouse connectors to the console switch. Connect the power cords, routing cables, and cable straps. For instruction, see . Parent topic:          
 Installing the slide rails into the rack To install slide rails into the rack, use this procedure.  To install the slide rails into the rack, complete the following steps:          The support bracket of the cable-management arm can be used to secure the cable-management arm during transportation. If the mechanism is engaged after the cable-management arm is installed, you will not be able to slide the system from the rack. Parent topic:          
 Installing the  on the slide rails You might need to install the  on the slide rails. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task.   Before installing the  on the slide rails, ensure that the stabilizers are extended and the rack stabilizer bracket is attached to the bottom front of the rack to prevent the rack from falling forward when the rails are pulled out of the rack.  To install the  on the slide-rail assembly, complete the following steps:   The latch strikes on the front of the rail and the cable-management arm brackets must be installed before installing an  onto the rails. If these parts are not installed, the installation may cause the rails to compress and the  may fall out of the rack.  This unit weighs approximately 17 kg (37 pounds). Be sure that you can safely support this weight when placing the  into the rack.        Do not, under any circumstances, force the  into the slide rails. If the  does not slide freely into the rack, completely remove the  from the rails. After the  is clear of the rails, reposition the , then reinsert the  into the rails. Repeat this process until the  slides freely into the rack.   Parent topic:          
 Installing the cable-management arm You might need to install the cable-management arm. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task.  To install the cable-management arm, complete the following steps:   Parent topic:          
 Cabling your rack-mounted HMC Learn how to physically install your rack-mounted HMC.  If you are connecting an external modem, do the following:  You can use other connectivity methods to send error information to IBM. For more information, see . If you have not already done so, connect the modem data cable to the external  modem. Connect the modem data cable to the system port on the  labeled with the following symbol:  Use the telephone cable to connect the line port of the external modem to the analog telephone jack on your wall. Plug the modem power supply cord into the HMC modem. If you are connecting to an integrated modem, use the data cable to connect the integrated  modem to the appropriate data source. For example, use the telephone cable to connect the  modem line port to the analog jack on your wall.   You can use other connectivity methods to send error information to IBM. For more information, see .   To learn more about the HMC network connections, see .    If you are connecting this HMC to a new managed system, do not connect the managed system to a power source at this time. Next, you will need to configure your HMC software. Continue with . Parent topic:          
 Installing the 7042-CR5, 7042-CR6, 7042-CR7, and 7042-CR8 into a rack This section describes how to install the 7042-CR5, 7042-CR6, 7042-CR7, or 7042-CR8 HMC into a rack.  Complete a parts inventory. The following illustration shows the items that you need to install the server in the rack cabinet. If any items are missing or damaged, contact your place of purchase.  Screws can be used for shipping, or for additional stabilization in high-vibration areas. To install a 7042-CR5, 7042-CR6, 7042-CR7, or 7042-CR8 HMC into a rack, complete the following steps:    Make sure that the movable tab remains extended and does not click back into place.                     Allow slack in all cables to avoid tension in the cables as the cable-management arm moves. Parent topic:          
 Configuring the  by using the fast path through the Guided Setup wizard In most cases, the  can be set up to operate effectively using many of the default settings. Use this fast path checklist to prepare the  for service. When you have completed these steps, your  will be configured as a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server in a private (directly connected) network.  Parent topic:  Start the HMC and complete the steps in the Guided Setup wizard Log in to the HMC interface and configure your HMC using the Guided Setup wizard.  If this is a new installation, ensure that the managed system is not connected to a power source. For rack-mounted s, this means that the only device plugged into the power distribution bus (PDB) before you plug in the main power supply is the . If this is a second HMC that is connected to the same managed system, the managed system can be connected to a power source.   If your system administrator () has changed the password, enter it here. ID: hscroot Password: abc123 The Guided Setup wizard opens.   If the  did not display when you started the , Click  in the navigation area of the HMC welcome page. Review your configuration On the Status window, monitor the progress of the different configuration settings you selected. This window might show a status of Pending for some tasks for several minutes. Click  to see status messages relating to each task. Click  at any time to close the Guided Setup wizard. Tasks that are still running will continue to run. Your HMC is now configured.         
 Upgrading your HMC software Learn how to upgrade the software on an HMC from one release to the next while maintaining your HMC configuration data. To upgrade machine code on an HMC, perform steps 1-9. If you are upgrading from HMC with Version 6 with HMC Version 7, refer to . Parent topic:  Step 1. Obtain the upgrade You can order the HMC machine code upgrade through the Fix Central website. To obtain the upgrade through the Fix Central website, do the following:  The Hardware Management Console site is displayed.   If you do not have access to the Internet, contact  service and support to order the upgrade on DVD. Step 2. View the existing HMC machine code level To determine the existing level of machine code on an HMC, follow these steps: Step 3. Back up the managed system's profile data To back up the managed system's profile data, do the following: Step 4. Back up HMC data Back up HMC data before installing a new version of HMC software so that previous levels can be restored in the event of a problem while upgrading the software. Do not use this critical console data after a successful upgrade to a new version of the HMC software. To back up to removable media, you will need to have that media available. To back up HMC data, do the following:  Insert the media into the drive. In the navigation area , select  Select . Select the media type. Select the format type. Click .  The Back up HMC Data window opens.  You can back up to media on a local system, a remote system mounted to the HMC file system (for example, NFS), or send the backup to a remote site using File Transfer Protocol (FTP).To back up to a local system, choose  and follow the instructions. To back up to a mounted remote system, choose  and follow the instructions. To back up to a remote FTP site, choose  and follow the instructions. Step 5. Record the current HMC configuration information Before you upgrade to a new version of HMC software, as a precautionary measure, record HMC configuration information.To record the current HMC configuration, do the following:  All scheduled operations for the target you selected are displayed.  Object Name Schedule date Operation Time (displayed in 24-hour format) Repetitive (if Yes, perform the following steps):Select . Record the interval information. Close the scheduled operations window. Repeat for each scheduled operation. Step 6. Record remote command status To record remote command status, do the following:   Step 7. Save upgrade data You can save the current HMC configuration in a designated disk partition on the HMC or to local media. Save upgrade data only immediately prior to upgrading your HMC software to a new release. This action allows you to restore HMC configuration settings after upgrading. Only one level of backup data is allowed. Each time you save upgrade data, the previous level is overwritten. To save upgrade data, do the following:  If the Save Upgrade Data task fails, contact your next level of support before proceeding.  If the save upgrade data task fails, do not continue the upgrade process. Step 8. Upgrade the HMC software To upgrade the HMC software, restart the system with the removable media in the DVD drive.  The HMC restarts and system information scrolls on the window.  If you have saved upgrade data during the previous task, continue with the next step. If you did not save upgrade data previously in this procedure, you must save the upgrade data now before you continue.    If the screen goes blank, press the space bar to view the information. The first DVD can take approximately 20 minutes to install.  The HMC code installation is complete. Step 9. Verify that the HMC machine code upgrade installed successfully To verify that the HMC upgrade installed successfully, do the following:          
 Migrating the machine code on an HMC from Version 6 to Version 7 Learn how to move the machine code on an HMC from Version 6 to Version 7 while maintaining your HMC configuration data. To migrate machine code on an HMC from Version 6 to Version 7, perform steps 1-9. To migrate to Version 7 Release 0, you must be at a minimum of  HMC machine code Version 6 Release 1.2.  Parent topic:  Ensure you have met the minimum requirements To migrate the machine code on an HMC from Version 6 to Version 7, you must first ensure that you have met the following minimum requirements:Your HMC is at level 6.12 or higher. For more information about checking your HMC code level and release, see .  Your system firmware is at its latest level.  You have performed the network integrity check Your HMC hardware supports this upgrade. Step 1. Obtain the upgrade To obtain the upgrade, do the following: You can order the HMC machine code upgrade through the Fix Central website, by contacting service and support, or by downloading it to an FTP server.  The Hardware Management Console site is displayed.     If you do not have access to the Internet, contact service and support to order the upgrade on DVD. Step 2. View the existing HMC machine code level To determine the existing level of machine code on an HMC, follow these steps:   To upgrade from HMC machine code 6.1.3 to 7.3.4.0, you must first apply a fix. For more information, see . Step 3. Back up the managed system's profile data To back up the managed system's profile data, do the following: Step 4. Back up critical console information Back up critical console information before installing a new version of HMC software so that previous levels can be restored in the event of a problem while upgrading the software. Do not use this critical console data after a successful upgrade to a new version of the HMC software. If you choose to back up the console data to removable media, you must have that media available. To back up critical console information, do the following:  If you do not plan to back up to DVD-RAM, continue with the next step. If you plan to back up to DVD-RAM, perform the following steps: Insert the DVD-RAM into the drive. In the navigation area, click . Select . Select . Select . Click . Continue with the next step.  You can back up to a DVD in the HMC, a remote system mounted to the HMC file system (for example, NFS), or send the backup to a remote site using File Transfer Protocol (FTP).To back up to DVD, choose  and follow the instructions. To back up to a mounted remote system, choose  and follow the instructions. To back up to a remote FTP site, choose  and follow the instructions. Step 5. Record the current HMC configuration information Before you upgrade to a new version of HMC software, as a precautionary measure, record HMC configuration information.To record HMC configuration information, follow these steps:  All scheduled operations for the target you selected are displayed.  Object Name Schedule date Operation Time (displayed in 24-hour format) Repetitive (if Yes, perform the following steps):Select . Record the interval information. Close the scheduled operations window. Repeat for each scheduled operation. Step 6. Record remote command status Step 7. Save upgrade data You can save the current HMC configuration in a designated disk partition on the HMC. Save upgrade data only immediately prior to upgrading your HMC software to a new release. This action allows you to restore HMC configuration settings after upgrading.The upgrade data will be restored automatically during the installation procedure.  Only one level of backup data is allowed. Each time you save upgrade data, the previous level is overwritten.  If the Save Upgrade Data task fails, contact your next level of support before proceeding.  If the save upgrade data task fails, do not continue the upgrade process. Step 8. Upgrade the HMC software from Version 6 to Version 7  To upgrade from HMC machine code 6.1.3 to 7.3.4.0, you must first apply a ptf. For more information, see . To upgrade the HMC software, restart the system with the DVD-RAM in the DVD drive.  From the HMC menu bar, select . Click . From the logout list, select  and click . The HMC restarts and system information scrolls on the window.  If you have saved upgrade data during the previous task, continue with the next step. If you did not save upgrade data previously in this procedure, you must save the upgrade data now before you continue.    If the screen goes blank, press the space bar to view the information. The first DVD can take approximately 20 minutes to install.  Press any key to confirm the installation. The HMC will display status messages as it installs the packages. Step 9. Verify that the HMC machine code upgrade installed successfully Step 10. Obtain an update package You can order the HMC update packages through the Fix Central website, by contacting service and support, or by downloading it to an FTP server.  The Hardware Management Console site is displayed.     If you do not have access to the Internet, contact service and support to order the upgrade on DVD. Step 11. Reschedule operations for this HMC When you upgrade the HMC, you must manually reschedule the operations you scheduled using the previous HMC version.         
 Configuring the HMC so that it can contact service and support Configure your HMC so that it can notify you when problems occur.  Configure the HMC so that it is a call-home server using the call-home wizard. Configure this HMC so that it can call-home errors using LAN connectivity, the phone or modems, or VPN. Choose existing HMC call-home servers that have been recognized, or "discovered" by this HMC to report errors. Test problem reporting to ensure that connection to service and support is working. You must authorize users to view data about your systems.  You can transmit information to your service provider immediately, or you can schedule the information to be sent on a regular basis.  Parent topic:          
 Configuring the HMC so that it can connect to service and support using the call-home setup wizard Configure the HMC so that it is a call-home server using the call-home wizard. This procedure describes how to configure the HMC as a call-home server using direct (LAN-based) and indirect (SSL) connections to the Internet. Before you begin this task, ensure that:The network administrator has verified that connectivity is allowed. For more information, see . If you are configuring Internet support through a proxy server, you must also have the following: The IP address and port of the proxy server The proxy authentication information The adapter designated as  (the one that is designated as an open network) is used. For more information, see . An Ethernet cable physically connects the HMC to the LAN. To configure the HMC so that it is a call-home server using the call-home wizard, do the following: Parent topic:          
 Choosing network settings on the HMC Learn about the network settings you can use on the HMC. Parent topic:          
 Configuring the local console to report errors to service and support Configure this HMC so that it can call-home errors using LAN connectivity, the phone or modems, or VPN. Describes how to configure the HMC as a call-home server using direct (LAN-based) and indirect (SSL) connections to the Internet. Describes how to configure the HMC as a call-home server using modem access to  support. Configure the call-home server using VPN. Parent topic:          
 Configuring an HMC to contact service and support using LAN-based Internet and SSL Describes how to configure the HMC as a call-home server using direct (LAN-based) and indirect (SSL) connections to the Internet. Before you begin this task, ensure that:The network administrator has verified that connectivity is allowed. For more information, see . Customer contact information has been configured.  Verify this by going to the HMC interface and clicking .  If you are configuring internet support through a proxy server, you must also have the following: The IP address and port of the proxy server The proxy authentication information You need at least one open network interface configured. For more information, see . An Ethernet cable physically connects the HMC to the LAN. To configure the HMC as a Call-home server using LAN-based Internet and SSL, do the following: Parent topic:          
 Connecting to service and support using the telephone and modems Describes how to configure the HMC as a call-home server using modem access to  support. Before you begin this task, ensure that:You have an dedicated analog telephone line available. You have the information required to configure the modem. For more information, see . Customer contact information has been configured.  You may verify this by going to the HMC interface and clicking .  Ensure you have the following information available:The type of analog line; that is, tone or pulse. Most lines are tone, but some are in use that are the older rotary or pulse type.  Whether the line presents a dial tone when the telephone is picked up.  Most telephones do, but some are in use that do not. Whether a dial prefix string is required. A dial prefix string is a number or series of numbers that allow access to an outside line. To configure the HMC as a call-home server using modem access to  support, do the following: Parent topic:          
 Connecting to service and support using a LAN-based VPN Configure the call-home server using VPN. Before you begin this task, ensure that:The network administrator has verified that connectivity is allowed. For more information, see . The adapter designated as  (the one that is designated as an open network) is used. For more information, see . An  Ethernet cable physically connects the HMC to the LAN. Customer contact information has been configured.  Verify this situation by clicking  on the HMC interface.  To configure the call-home server using VPN, do the following: Parent topic:          
 Choosing existing call-home servers to connect to service and support for this HMC Choose existing HMC call-home servers that have been recognized, or "discovered" by this HMC to report errors. Discovered HMCs are HMCs that are enabled as call-home servers and are either on the same subnet or manage the same managed system as this HMC.  To choose a discovered HMC to call home when this HMC reports errors, do the following:  The HMC below 7.1.0 version should not be added as a call home proxy server in an HMC with or above 7.1.0 version. You can also manually add existing HMC call-home servers that are on a different subnet. Select the IP address or host name of the HMC that is configured for call home and click . Then click . Parent topic:          
 Verifying that your connection to service and support is working Test problem reporting to ensure that connection to service and support is working. To verify that your call-home configuration is working, do the following: Parent topic:          
 Authorizing users to view collected system data You must authorize users to view data about your systems.  Before you authorize users to view collected system data, you must obtain an IBM ID. For more information about obtaining an IBM ID, see .  To authorize users to view collected system data, do the following: Parent topic:          
 Transmitting service information You can transmit information to your service provider immediately, or you can schedule the information to be sent on a regular basis.   You should transmit service provider information as soon as the HMC is installed and configured for use. To transmit service information, do the following: Parent topic:          
 HMC port locations You can find part locations by using location codes. Use the HMC port location illustrations to map a location code to the HMC port position on the server.  or  HMC port locationsUse this diagram and table to map the HMC ports on an  or . Port Physical location code Identify LED HMC port 1 Un-P1-T5 No  HMC port 2  Un-P1-T6 No For more information on HMC port locations on the  or , see .  or  HMC port locationsUse this diagram and table to map the HMC ports on an  or . Port Physical location code Identify LED HMC port 1 Un-P1-T5 No  HMC port 2  Un-P1-T6 No For more information on HMC port locations on the  or , see .  HMC port locationsUse this diagram and table to map the HMC ports on an . Port Physical location code Identify LED HMC port 1 Un-P1-T3 No  HMC port 2  Un-P1-T4 No For more information on HMC port locations on the , see .  or  HMC port locationsUse this diagram and table to map the HMC ports on an  or . Port Physical location code Identify LED HMC port 1 Un-P1-T3 No  HMC port 2  Un-P1-T4 No For more information on HMC port locations on the  or , see   or  HMC port locationsUse this diagram and table to map the HMC ports on an  or . Port Physical location code Identify LED HMC port 1 Un-P1-T7 No  HMC port 2  Un-P1-T8 No For more information on HMC port location on  or , see    or  HMC port locationsUse this diagram and table to map the HMC ports on an   or . Port Physical location code Identify LED HMC port 1 Un-P1-C1-T6 Yes HMC port 2  Un-P1-C1-T7 Yes For more information on HMC ports on an  or , see .  or  HMC port locationsUse this diagram and table to map the HMC ports on a  or . Port Physical location code Identify LED HMC port 1 Un-P1-C1-T6 Yes HMC port 2  Un-P1-C1-T7 Yes For more information on HMC ports on a  or , see  , , , , or  HMC port locationsUse this diagram and table to map the HMC ports on a , , , , or . Port Physical location code Identify LED HMC port 1 Un-P1-C1-T6 Yes HMC port 2  Un-P1-C1-T7 Yes For more information on HMC ports on , , , or , see   HMC port locationsUse this diagram and table to map the HMC ports on a . Port Physical location code Identify LED HMC (Connector J02, Ethernet to Bulk power hub-BPH) Un-Px-C1–J02 No HMC (Connector J03, Ethernet to Bulk power hub-BPH) Un-Px-C1–J03 No For more information on HMC ports on , see  Parent topic:          
  or  The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. Using location codesUse the following table to link to a specific topic that you need additional information about when reading your location code. Location code topics Description Contains background information on the use of location codes. Provides a definition for physical location code. Provides a definition of what a logical location code is. Provides descriptive information of the Un value in the location code string. For example, U789C.001.  Provides a table that identifies and defines the location code labels. The location code labels begin with an alphabetic character and follow the system serial number. For example, U789C.001.10ABCDE-P3-C31-T2-L23. The system serial number is 10ABCDE in the previous example. P3, C31, T2, and L23 all contain an alphabetic character that is identified in the Location code labels table. Provides a definition for the world unique identifier. This group of digits follows the resource code labels and always begins with the letter W. Location code overviewServers (system unit and expansion units) use physical location codes to provide mapping of replaceable units. Location codes are produced by the server's firmware, which structures them so that they can be used to identify specific parts in a system. The location code format is the same for all servers. If you are working with a specific location code, the unit type and model immediately follow the first character (Utttt.mmm). Match the unit type and model to a link, as shown in the Unit type and locations table. If the location code ends with , the server's firmware could not identify the physical location. When a physical location cannot be identified, a logical location code is provided. Where logical location codes occur in enclosures, the locations topic for the enclosure has the known conversions listed. For logical location codes with no conversion, contact your next level of support. If the location code begins with , the expansion I/O unit's machine type, model, and serial number have not been set yet and this is a temporary unit identifier. To identify the unit, examine the display panels on all of the expansion I/O units that are connected to the server until you find one with the same characters in the first 5 digits of the top line in the unit's display. Record the unit's real machine type and model from the unit label.   Match the unit's machine type and model in the Unit type and locations table and follow the link to determine the service information.  Locations for units that are not in the preceding list are either not supported or there is a problem in the firmware. Contact your next level of support. Physical location codesPhysical location codes provide a mapping of logical functions and components (such as backplanes, removable modules, connectors, ports, cables, and devices) to their specific locations within the physical structure of the server. Logical location codesIf the physical location cannot be mapped to a physical location code, the server's firmware generates a logical location code. A logical location code is a sequence of location labels that identifies the path that the system uses to communicate with a given resource.  A resource has as many logical location codes as it has logical connections to the system. For example, an external tape device connected to two I/O adapters has two logical location codes. An example of a logical location code is: U789C.001.10ABCDE-P3-C31-T2-L23 The first part of the location code (through the T2 label) represents the physical location code for the resource that communicates with the target resource. The remainder of the logical location code (L23) represents exactly which resource is indicated. Location code formatThe location code is an alphanumeric string of variable length, consisting of a series of location identifiers, separated by a dash.  An example of a physical location for a fan is Un-A1.  The first position, represented by Un (where n is equal to any string contained between the U and the hyphen) in the preceding example, is displayed in one of the forms in the following table.  In location codes the U is a constant digit; however, the numbered positions that follow the U are variables and are dependent on your server. Each column defines the numbers that follow the U in the beginning of the location code.  Machine type and model number in a location code Feature codes and sequence numbers in a location code  Utttt.mmm.sssssss-A1  Uffff.ccc.sssssss-A1 The leftmost code is always U. The leftmost code is always U. tttt represents the unit type of the enclosure (drawer or node). ffff represents the feature code of the enclosure (drawer or node). mmm represents the model of the enclosure. ccc represents the sequence number of the enclosure . sssssss represents the serial number for the enclosure. sssssss represents the serial number of the enclosure.   The mmm or ccc number might not be displayed on all location codes for all servers. If the mmm value is not displayed, the location code is displayed in one of the following forms: Utttt.sssssss-A1 Uffff.sssssss-A1 The location code is hierarchical; that is, each location identifier in the string represents a physical part. The order (from left to right), in which each identifier is shown, allows you to determine which parts contain other parts in the string. The dash (-) separator character represents a relationship between two components in the unit. In the example of the fan, whose location code is Un-A1, the dash shows that the fan (A1) is contained in the base unit (or Un). Modules, adapters, cables, and devices are all parts that are plugged into another part. Their location codes always show that they are plugged into another part as components of the server. Another example follows: Un-P1-C9 is a memory DIMM (C9) that is plugged into a backplane (P1), which is inside the unit (Un).  For devices, certain error conditions might cause an  device to display the device location in an  format. Unit type (Utttt.mmm) Link to location information U8202.E4B or U8205.E6B  or   Location code labelsThe location code label represents a physical part of the server. The following table describes the prefixes of location code labels.  These labels apply to system units only. Prefix Description Example A Air-moving device Fan, blower C Card connector IOP, IOA, DIMM, processor card D Device Diskette, control panel E Electrical Battery, power supply, ac charger L Logical path SAS target Integrated drive electronics (IDE) address, Fibre Channel LUN N Horizontal placement for an empty rack location   P Planar System backplane T Port, external cable   U Unit   V Virtual planar   W Worldwide unique ID   X EIA value for an empty rack location   Y Firmware FRU   Worldwide unique identifierThe location code label for the worldwide unique identifier consists of the prefix W followed by a maximum of 16 uppercase hexadecimal digits with no leading zeros. A location code might not consist of a worldwide unique identifier. When present, the worldwide unique identifier location label follows the location label of the resource that interfaces with the resource that has the worldwide unique identifier, usually a port. Parent topic:          
  or  locations Use this information to help you map a location code to a position on the unit. The following diagrams show field replaceable unit (FRU) layouts in the system. Use these diagrams with the following tables. Rack views     Stand-alone views       Memory card locations   PCIe SAS RAID and SSD adapter locations   The following table provides location codes for parts that comprise the server. Failing item name Physical location code Identify LED Failing item removal and replacement procedures System unit  Un     Fans   Fan 1 Un-A1 Yes See . Fan 2 Un-A2 Yes Fan 3 Un-A3 Yes Fan 4 Un-A4 Yes   Power supplies   Power supply 1  Un-E1 Yes See . Power supply 1 - Cord connector Un-E1-T1 Yes Power supply 2  Un-E2 Yes Power supply 2 - Cord connector Un-E2-T1 Yes Backplanes   System backplane Un-P1 Yes See . Time-of-day Un-P1     Time-of-day battery Un-P1-E1   See . Disk drive backplane Un-P2 Yes See . Ports   System port 1 Un-P1-T1 No   System port 2 Un-P1-T2 No   SPCN port 1 Un-P1-T3 No   SPCN port 2 Un-P1-T4 No   HMC port 1 Un-P1-T5 No   HMC port 2 Un-P1-T6 No   USB port 1 Un-P1-T7 No   USB port 2 Un-P1-T8 No   Processor and processor regulator    processor module 1 Un-P1-C11 Yes See .  processor module 2 Un-P1-C10 Yes  processor module 1 VRM Un-P1-C12 Yes See .  processor module 2 VRM Un-P1-C9 Yes Adapters    riser Un-P1-C1 No    expansion feature - PCIe x8 slot 5 Un-P1-C1-C1 No    expansion feature - PCIe x8 slot 6 Un-P1-C1-C2 No    expansion feature - PCIe x8 slot 7 Un-P1-C1-C3 No    expansion feature - PCIe x8 slot 8 Un-P1-C1-C4 No    slot Un-P1-C3 Yes See .  4-Port 1 Gb card - Port 1 Un-P1-C3-T1 Yes  4-Port 1 Gb card - Port 2 Un-P1-C3-T2 Yes  4-Port 1 Gb card - Port 3 Un-P1-C3-T3 Yes  4-Port 1 Gb card - Port 4 Un-P1-C3-T4 Yes  2-Port 10 Gb card - Port 1 Un-P1-C3-T1 Yes  2-Port 10 Gb card - Port 2 Un-P1-C3-T2 Yes  slot 1 Un-P1-C4 No See .  slot 2 Un-P1-C5 No  slot 3 Un-P1-C6 No  slot 4 Un-P1-C7 No Un-P1-C8 Yes See .  You can either install the  in Un-P1-C2 or the  riser in Un-P1-C1 , but not both at the same time. Un-P1-C2    IB-2 card - Port 1 Un-P1-C8-T1 Yes  IB-2 card - Port 2 Un-P1-C8-T2 Yes  expansion feature - Fan 1 Un-P1-C1-A1 Yes    expansion feature - Fan 2 Un-P1-C1-A2 Yes   System VPD card Un-P1-C20     RAID enablement card for system backplane  Un-P1-C13 Yes See . Cache battery card Un-P1-C14 Yes Battery on cache battery card Un-P1-C14-E1 Yes RAID storage controller or RAID and cache storage controller Un-P1-C19 Yes   Battery on RAID and cache storage controller Un-P1-C19-E1 Yes    Memory modules   Memory card 1 Un-P1-C18 Yes See . Memory card 1 - DIMM 1 Un-P1-C18-C1 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 2 Un-P1-C18-C2 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 3 Un-P1-C18-C3 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 4 Un-P1-C18-C4 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 5 Un-P1-C18-C7 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 6 Un-P1-C18-C8 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 7 Un-P1-C18-C9 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 8 Un-P1-C18-C10 Yes Memory card 1 - 20A memory VRM Un-P1-C18-C5 Yes See . Memory card 1 - 80A memory VRM Un-P1-C18-C6 Yes Memory card 2 Un-P1-C17 Yes See . Memory card 2 - DIMM 1 Un-P1-C17-C1 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 2 Un-P1-C17-C2 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 3 Un-P1-C17-C3 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 4 Un-P1-C17-C4 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 5 Un-P1-C17-C7 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 6 Un-P1-C17-C8 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 7 Un-P1-C17-C9 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 8 Un-P1-C17-C10 Yes Memory card 2 - 20A memory VRM Un-P1-C17-C5 Yes See . Memory card 2 - 80A memory VRM Un-P1-C17-C6 Yes Memory card 3 Un-P1-C16 Yes See . Memory card 3 - DIMM 1 Un-P1-C16-C1 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 2 Un-P1-C16-C2 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 3 Un-P1-C16-C3 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 4 Un-P1-C16-C4 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 5 Un-P1-C16-C7 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 6 Un-P1-C16-C8 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 7 Un-P1-C16-C9 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 8 Un-P1-C16-C10 Yes Memory card 3 - 20A memory VRM Un-P1-C16-C5 Yes See . Memory card 3 - 80A memory VRM Un-P1-C16-C6 Yes Memory card 4 Un-P1-C15 Yes See . Memory card 4 - DIMM 1 Un-P1-C15-C1 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 2 Un-P1-C15-C2 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 3 Un-P1-C15-C3 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 4 Un-P1-C15-C4 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 5 Un-P1-C15-C7 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 6 Un-P1-C15-C8 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 7 Un-P1-C15-C9 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 8 Un-P1-C15-C10 Yes Memory card 4 - 20A memory VRM Un-P1-C15-C5 Yes See . Memory card 4 - 80A memory VRM Un-P1-C15-C6 Yes Device physical locations   Tape drive (SAS) Un-P1-D1 No   Tape drive (USB) Un-P1-D2 No   Disk drive 1 Un-P2-D1 Yes See . Disk drive 2 Un-P2-D2 Yes Disk drive 3 Un-P2-D3 Yes Disk drive 4 Un-P2-D4 Yes Disk drive 5 Un-P2-D5 Yes Disk drive 6 Un-P2-D6 Yes Disk drive 7 Un-P2-D7 Yes Disk drive 8 Un-P2-D8 Yes Solid-state disk drive 1 on PCIe SAS RAID and SSD adapter Un -P1-Cx-D1 or Un -P1-C1-Cx-D1 No Solid-state disk drive 2 on PCIe SAS RAID and SSD adapter Un -P1-Cx-D2 or Un -P1-C1-Cx-D2 No Solid-state disk drive 3 on PCIe SAS RAID and SSD adapter Un -P1-Cx-D3 or Un -P1-C1-Cx-D3 No Solid-state disk drive 4 on PCIe SAS RAID and SSD adapter Un -P1-Cx-D4 or Un -P1-C1-Cx-D4 No DVD Un-P2-D9 Yes   SAS port Un-P2-T1 No   Embedded SAS controller Un-P1-T9 No   Control panel   Control panel Un -D1 No See . Temperature sensor Un -D1 No   Control panel - USB port Un -D1-T1 No   Server firmware   Server firmware  Um-Y1     Parent topic:  Related reference:         
 Fans and fan cages for the  Learn how to remove and replace the system fans and fan cages for the  systems. Replacing this feature is a customer task. You can perform this task yourself, or contact an authorized service provider to perform the task for you. You might be charged a fee by the authorized service provider for this service. You can view and print a PDF of this information. Use these procedures to remove and replace the front fans. Use these procedures to remove and replace the fan cages. Use these procedures to remove and replace the middle fans.    |      
 Removing and replacing the front fans Use these procedures to remove and replace the front fans. Use this procedure to remove the front fans. Use this procedure to replace the front fans. Parent topic:     |      
 Removing the  front fans Use this procedure to remove the front fans. If your system is managed by the  (), use the  to remove a front fan from the server. For instructions, see . If your system is managed by the  (), use the  to remove a front fan from the server. For instructions, see . If you do not have an  , complete the following steps to remove a front fan:  To perform a concurrent removal, the following conditions must be true: Air moving devices (AMDs) must be installed in all the positions. Each of these AMD units has a green LED and an amber LED.  The green LED will be on for all of the fans, but the fan with the failure will have the amber fault LED lit. If only one amber fault LED is on, the repair can be performed concurrently. If more than one amber fault LED is lit, the repair must be done nonconcurrently.  Nonconcurrent repair: Go to the next step. Concurrent repair: Go to step . Delay the repair: This ends the procedure.   Attach a wrist strap to an unpainted metal surface of your hardware to prevent electrostatic discharge (ESD) from damaging your hardware. When using a wrist strap, follow all electrical safety procedures.  A wrist strap is for static control. It does not increase or decrease your risk of receiving electric shock when using or working on electrical equipment. If you do not have a wrist strap, just prior to removing the product from ESD packaging and installing or replacing hardware, touch an unpainted metal surface of the system for a minimum of 5 seconds.  For a rack-mounted system, see  For a stand-alone system, see .   If performing this procedure concurrently, from the moment the fan is removed, the exchange of the fan must be completed in less the 10 minutes to prevent system shutdown or damage.   If you removed the fan as part of another service action or if you need to replace the fan that you removed, see . Parent topic:     |      
 Removing a part by using the  You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including the removal of a field replaceable unit (FRU) or part. To remove a part in a system or expansion unit that is managed by  Version 7, or later, complete the following steps:      The  might open the information center instructions for removing the part. If so, follow those instructions to remove the part. Parent topic:     |      
 Installing or replacing a part with an HMC or SDMC You can use the  () or the  () to perform many service actions, including the installation of a new field-replaceable unit (FRU) or parts. You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including the installation of a new feature or part. You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including the removal of a field replaceable unit (FRU) or part. You can use the  ()  to perform many service actions, including exchanging a field replaceable unit (FRU) or part. You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including the installation of a new field-replaceable unit (FRU) or part. You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including the removal of a field-replaceable unit (FRU) or part. You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including exchanging a field-replaceable unit (FRU) or part. Parent topic:     |      
 Installing a part by using the  You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including the installation of a new feature or part. To install a feature or part into a system or expansion unit that is managed by  Version 7, or later, complete the following steps:   If your part is in a miscellaneous equipment specification (MES), continue with step . If your part is contained in the install done by the system services representative (SSR) or in a ship group, go to step .  The details of the order number are displayed.     The  might open external instructions for installing the feature. If so, follow those instructions to install the feature. Parent topic:     |      
 Replacing a part by using the  You can use the  ()  to perform many service actions, including exchanging a field replaceable unit (FRU) or part. If you are exchanging a part to repair a serviceable event, follow those instructions. If you are exchanging a part as a part of any other procedure by using  Version 7, or later, complete the following steps:     The  might open external instructions for replacing the part. If so, follow those instructions to replace the part. Parent topic:     |      
 Installing a part by using the  You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including the installation of a new field-replaceable unit (FRU) or part. To install a part into a system or expansion unit that is managed by an , complete the following steps:    The  might open external instructions for installing the feature. If so, follow those instructions to install the part. Parent topic:     |      
 Removing a part by using the  You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including the removal of a field-replaceable unit (FRU) or part. To remove a part in a system or expansion unit that is managed by an , complete the following steps:    The  might open external instructions for removing the part. If so, follow those instructions to remove the part. Parent topic:     |      
 Replacing a part by using the  You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including exchanging a field-replaceable unit (FRU) or part. To replace a part by using the , complete the following steps:  If you are replacing a part that is not part of a serviceable event from the  menu, expand . If you are exchanging a part to repair a serviceable event, see  .   The  might open external instructions for replacing the part. If so, follow those instructions to replace the part. Parent topic:     |      
 Starting a repair action This is the starting point for repair actions. All repair actions must begin with this procedure. From this point, you are guided to the appropriate information to help you perform the necessary steps to repair the server.  In this topic, control panel and operator panel are synonymous.  Before beginning, record information to help you return the server to the same state that the customer typically uses. Examples follow: The IPL type that the customer typically uses for the server. The IPL mode that is used by the customer on this server. The way in which the server is configured or partitioned.   Has problem analysis been performed by using the procedures in ? Yes: Continue with the next step. No: Perform problem analysis by using the procedures in . Is the failing server managed by a ? Yes: Continue with step . No: Continue with the next step.  Do you have an action plan to perform an isolation procedure? Yes: Go to . No: Continue with the next step. Do you have a field replaceable unit (FRU), location code, and an action plan to replace a failing FRU? 	 Yes: Go to the removal and replacement procedures for the system you are servicing. No: Go to  to find the part that you need, and then go to the removal and replacement procedures for the system you are servicing. This ends the procedure. Is the  connected and functional?  Yes: Continue with the next step. No: Start the  and attach it to the server. When the  is connected and functional, continue with the next step. Perform the following steps from the  that is used to manage the server. During these steps, refer to the service data that was gathered earlier: If you are unable to locate the reported problem and there is more than one open problem near the time of the reported failure, use the earliest problem in the list. For  (), complete the following steps:In the navigation area, open Service Management.  Click Manage Serviceable Events. For , select Open . Select ALL for every other selection and click OK. Scroll through the list to determine whether a problem has a status of Open and to determine whether it corresponds with the customer's reported problem. Do you find the reported problem or an open problem near the time of the reported problem? For  (), complete the following steps:In the Service and Support Manager window, click . Click  to see a filtered list of only those problems associated with systems that are monitored by the Service and Support Manager. Scroll through the list to determine whether a problem has a status of Open and to determine whether it corresponds with the customer's reported problem. Do you find the reported problem or an open problem near the time of the reported problem?   Yes: Continue with the next step. No: Go to step , or if a serviceable event was not found, see the appropriate problem analysis procedure for the operating system you are using.If the server or partition is running the AIX® or Linux operating system, see . If the server or partition is running the IBM i operating system, see . To perform a repair operation from the , complete the following steps:For , complete the following steps:Select the serviceable event you want to repair, and click Repair from the selected menu. Follow the instructions displayed on the HMC. After you complete the repair procedure, the system automatically closes the serviceable event. This ends the procedure. For , complete the following steps:Select the serviceable event you want to repair, and select Repair from the  menu. Follow the instructions displayed on the .After you complete the repair procedure, the system automatically closes the serviceable event. This ends the procedure. If the  repair procedures are not available, go to step .   Parent topic:          
 Isolation procedures Isolation procedures are used together with diagnostic programs, which are part of server firmware.  If a server is connected to a management console, these procedures are available on the management console. Use the management console procedures to continue isolating the problem. If the server does not have a management console and you are directed to perform an isolation procedure, the procedures documented here are needed to continue isolating a problem.  Use RIO/HSL/12X isolation procedures if there is no a management console attached to the server. If the server is connected to a management console, use the procedures that are available on the management console to continue FRU isolation. Symbolic FRUs, failing items, and bus isolation procedures use the terms partition and logical partition to indicate any single partition in a system that has multiple partitions. If the system you are working on does not have multiple partitions, then the terms refer to the primary partition. Use multi-adapter bridge (MAB) isolation procedures if there is not a management console attached to the server. If the server is connected to a management console, use the procedures that are available on the management console to continue FRU isolation. Isolate a communications failure. Provides a procedure to isolate a failure in a disk unit. These procedures help you to correct an intermittent problem. Isolate a failure in the multiple function I/O card. Use this section to isolate Licensed Internal Code problems. Identify logical partition (LPAR) configuration conditions and the associated corrective actions. These procedures help you to isolate a failure with the Operations Console. Use power isolation procedures for isolating a problem in the power system. Use isolation procedures if there is not a management console attached to the server. If the server is connected to a management console, use the procedures that are available on the management console to continue FRU isolation. These procedures serve as a guide to the correct isolation procedures from the reference code tables. Use serial-attached SCSI (SAS) isolation procedures when a management console is not attached to the server. If the server is connected to a management console, use the procedures that are available on the management console to continue FRU isolation. Use service processor isolation procedures if there is not a management console attached to the server. If the server is connected to a management console, use the procedures that are available on the management console to continue FRU isolation. This topic contains the procedures necessary to isolate a failure in a tape device. Use the procedure below to isolate a failure which has been detected by the twinaxial workstation I/O processor. If you are using a personal computer, an emulation program must be installed and working. Isolates a failure that is detected by the workstation adapter, and is used when no display is available with which to perform on-line problem analysis. Contains the procedure necessary to isolate a failure that is detected by the workstation adapter console. Use the procedures for Linux servers if there is not a management console attached to the server. If the server is connected to a management console, use the procedures that are available on the management console to continue FRU isolation.          
 HSL/RIO 12X isolation procedures Use RIO/HSL/12X isolation procedures if there is no a management console attached to the server. If the server is connected to a management console, use the procedures that are available on the management console to continue FRU isolation. Parent topic:          
 Bus, high-speed link (HSL/RIO/12X) isolation information Symbolic FRUs, failing items, and bus isolation procedures use the terms partition and logical partition to indicate any single partition in a system that has multiple partitions. If the system you are working on does not have multiple partitions, then the terms refer to the primary partition. Read all safety notices below before servicing the system and while performing a procedure.  Unless instructed otherwise, always power off the system before removing, exchanging, or installing a field-replaceable unit (FRU). DANGERWhen working on or around the system, observe the following precautions:Electrical voltage and current from power, telephone, and communication cables are hazardous. To avoid a shock hazard: Connect power to this unit only with the provided power cord.  Do not use the provided power cord for any other product. Do not open or service any power supply assembly. Do not connect or disconnect any cables or perform installation, maintenance, or reconfiguration of this product during an electrical storm. The product might be equipped with multiple power cords.  To remove all hazardous voltages, disconnect all power cords. Connect all power cords to a properly wired and grounded electrical outlet.  Ensure that the outlet supplies proper voltage and phase rotation according to the system rating plate. Connect any equipment that will be attached to this product to properly wired outlets. When possible, use one hand only to connect or disconnect signal cables. Never turn on any equipment when there is evidence of fire, water, or structural damage. Disconnect the attached power cords, telecommunications systems, networks, and modems before you open the device covers, unless instructed otherwise in the installation and configuration procedures. Connect and disconnect cables as described in the following procedures when installing, moving, or opening covers on this product or attached devices. To Disconnect: Turn off everything (unless instructed otherwise). Remove the power cords from the outlets. Remove the signal cables from the connectors. Remove all cables from the devices. To Connect: Turn off everything (unless instructed otherwise). Attach all cables to the devices. Attach the signal cables to the connectors. Attach the power cords to the outlets. Turn on the devices. Isolate a PCI bus problem from the management console or while running in the  environment. Use this procedure to verify a repair for the high-speed link, a system PCI bus, or for a multi-adapter bridge. Use Word 7 of the reference code to determine the bus number, bus type, multi-adapter bridge number, multi-adapter bridge function number, and logical card number from the direct select address (DSA). The Direct Select Address (DSA) may be coded in word 7 of the reference code. The following information correlates PCI bus numbers to PCI card location codes for the listed machine types and models. Use this table to convert the 12X loop number to port location labels. Use this HSL loop configuration and status form to record the status of the HSL ports in the loop. Use this form to record the PCI bridge set card positions, and multi-adapter bridge function numbers. Use this form to record the status of the RIO/HSL/12X links. Use this procedure to exchange the I/O processor (IOP) for the system or partition console. Use this procedure to isolate a failure in a RIO/HSL/12X loop using service tools. Use HSM to examine the RIO/HSL/12X Loop to determine if other systems are connected to the loop. Starting with the unit ID and RIO/HSL/12X port for one end of an RIO/HSL/12X cable, determine the unit ID and port location for the other end. This procedure offers a description and service action for RIO/HSL/12X reference code B600 6982. Use this procedure to determine if the 12X loop is complete (with both primary and redundant paths functioning for each unit on the loop). Use this procedure to recover from a B7xx 6982 12X failure. Use this procedure to recover from a B7xx 6985 12X failure. Use this procedure to restore the 12X link to optimal bandwidth. Parent topic:          
 PCI bus isolation using or the management console Isolate a PCI bus problem from the management console or while running in the  environment. If you have a management console, then this procedure should be performed from the management console as part of the management console directed service.If you do not have a management console, then you should perform this procedure when directed by the maintenance package. Parent topic:  Isolating a PCI bus problem while running    Perform .   Choose from the following: If you are running , go to   to isolate the PCI bus failure with online diagnostics in concurrent mode. If you are running , go to  to isolate the PCI bus failure with stand-alone diagnostics.    Isolating a PCI bus problem from the management console To isolate a PCI bus problem from the management console, check the serviceable event view for the server for FRU part locations associated with the serviceable event, then continue with this procedure:   Use those locations to exchange the given FRUs one at a time until the problem is resolved.   Continue with the next step.     Continue with the next step.  The multi-adapter bridge number and the multi-adapter function number have not been identified, and so the card slot cannot be identified using the DSA. Look in the management console partition resources for non-reporting or non-operational hardware. That will indicate which cards in which positions need to be replaced. See  for the model you are working on for information about the multi-adapter bridge that controls those card slots. That multi-adapter bridge is also a FRU.    Continue with the next step.  Only the multi-adapter bridge number has been identified. Record the multi-adapter bridge number (left-most character of Cc) for later use. Because the card slot cannot be identified with the DSA, see   for the model you are working on for information about the multi-adapter bridge that controls the card slots. Consider all card slots controlled by the multi-adapter bridge to be FRUs.   Then return to the procedure that sent you here.          
 MABIP52 This procedure will isolate a failing PCI adapter from a reference code when an IPL is not successful on the system or logical partition.  Power off the partition to remove and replace any failing items referenced in this procedure. If you do not perform dedicated maintenance, the problem will persist.   See  for help in determining these values.  The PCI bridge set is the group of card positions controlled by the same multi-adapter bridge on the bus that you recorded.    Be sure to record the card position of each IOA so that you can reinstall it in the same position later. To determine the location of all the IOA cards in the PCI bridge set, go to .  Does the reference code or failure that sent you to this procedure occur? No: Continue with the next step. Yes:  The problem is the multi-adapter bridge. Continue with step .  Yes:  The IOA that you just installed is the failing FRU. Replace the IOA.This ends the procedure. No: If a different SRC occurs, return to   and follow the service procedures for the new reference code. This ends the procedure.  If no SRC occurs and there are more IOAs to install, power off the partition and repeat this step.  If no SRC occurs and there are no more IOAs to install, the problem is intermittent; contact your next level of support. This ends the procedure.     See  to determine the correct card location for removal. Does the reference code or failure that sent you to this procedure occur? No: Go to .  Yes:  Call your next level of support.  Parent topic:          
 DSA translation The Direct Select Address (DSA) may be coded in word 7 of the reference code. This DSA is either a PCI system bus number or a RIO/HSL/12X loop number, depending on the type of error. With the following information, and the information in either the card position table (for PCI bus numbers) or the information in the loop-number-to-NIC-port table (for RIO/HSL/12X loop numbers), you can isolate a failing PCI bus or RIO/HSL/12X loop. Use the following instructions to translate the DSA:  The DSA is of the form BBBB Ccxx, and separates into the following parts:BBBB = bus number C = multi-adapter bridge number c = multi-adapter bridge function number xx = not used   The bus number is a PCI bus number in hexadecimal. Convert the number to decimal, and then continue with the next step.  The bus number is a RIO/HSL/12X loop number in hexadecimal. Convert the number to decimal, and then go to step .  If you are using a management console interface, view the managed system's properties on the management console. If you are using Linux, use the command line interface to determine the enclosure type. On the command line, type the following:lshwres -r io --rsubtype bus The result will be in the form: unit_phys_loc=Uxxxx.yyy.zzzzzzz,bus_id=a, ...... Find the bus ID "a" entry that matches the decimal bus number you determined in step 2. Using the corresponding Uxxxx value, look up the unit model or enclosure type using the Unit Type and Locations table in  .  If you are working with a PCI bus number, see  to search for the bus number, the multi-adapter bridge number, and the multi-adapter bridge function number that matches the system unit or expansion unit type where the bus is located.  If you are working with a RIO/HSL/12X loop number, see  to determine the starting ports for the RIO/HSL/12X loop with the failed link.    Parent topic:          
 Part locations and location codes You can find part locations by using location codes. Illustrations are provided to help you map a location code to a position on the server or expansion unit. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. Parent topic:          
  or  The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. Using location codesUse the following table to link to a specific topic that you need additional information about when reading your location code. Location code topics Description Contains background information on the use of location codes. Provides a definition for physical location code. Provides a definition of what a logical location code is. Provides descriptive information of the Un value in the location code string. For example, U789C.001.  Provides a table that identifies and defines the location code labels. The location code labels begin with an alphabetic character and follow the system serial number. For example, U789C.001.10ABCDE-P3-C31-T2-L23. The system serial number is 10ABCDE in the previous example. P3, C31, T2, and L23 all contain an alphabetic character that is identified in the Location code labels table. Provides a definition for the world unique identifier. This group of digits follows the resource code labels and always begins with the letter W. Location code overviewServers (system unit and expansion units) use physical location codes to provide mapping of replaceable units. Location codes are produced by the server's firmware, which structures them so that they can be used to identify specific parts in a system. The location code format is the same for all servers. If you are working with a specific location code, the unit type and model immediately follow the first character (Utttt.mmm). Match the unit type and model to a link, as shown in the Unit type and locations table. If the location code ends with , the server's firmware could not identify the physical location. When a physical location cannot be identified, a logical location code is provided. Where logical location codes occur in enclosures, the locations topic for the enclosure has the known conversions listed. For logical location codes with no conversion, contact your next level of support. If the location code begins with , the expansion I/O unit's machine type, model, and serial number have not been set yet and this is a temporary unit identifier. To identify the unit, examine the display panels on all of the expansion I/O units that are connected to the server until you find one with the same characters in the first 5 digits of the top line in the unit's display. Record the unit's real machine type and model from the unit label.   Match the unit's machine type and model in the Unit type and locations table and follow the link to determine the service information.  Locations for units that are not in the preceding list are either not supported or there is a problem in the firmware. Contact your next level of support. Physical location codesPhysical location codes provide a mapping of logical functions and components (such as backplanes, removable modules, connectors, ports, cables, and devices) to their specific locations within the physical structure of the server. Logical location codesIf the physical location cannot be mapped to a physical location code, the server's firmware generates a logical location code. A logical location code is a sequence of location labels that identifies the path that the system uses to communicate with a given resource.  A resource has as many logical location codes as it has logical connections to the system. For example, an external tape device connected to two I/O adapters has two logical location codes. An example of a logical location code is: U789C.001.10ABCDE-P3-C31-T2-L23 The first part of the location code (through the T2 label) represents the physical location code for the resource that communicates with the target resource. The remainder of the logical location code (L23) represents exactly which resource is indicated. Location code formatThe location code is an alphanumeric string of variable length, consisting of a series of location identifiers, separated by a dash.  An example of a physical location for a fan is Un-A1.  The first position, represented by Un (where n is equal to any string contained between the U and the hyphen) in the preceding example, is displayed in one of the forms in the following table.  In location codes the U is a constant digit; however, the numbered positions that follow the U are variables and are dependent on your server. Each column defines the numbers that follow the U in the beginning of the location code.  Machine type and model number in a location code Feature codes and sequence numbers in a location code  Utttt.mmm.sssssss-A1  Uffff.ccc.sssssss-A1 The leftmost code is always U. The leftmost code is always U. tttt represents the unit type of the enclosure (drawer or node). ffff represents the feature code of the enclosure (drawer or node). mmm represents the model of the enclosure. ccc represents the sequence number of the enclosure . sssssss represents the serial number for the enclosure. sssssss represents the serial number of the enclosure.   The mmm or ccc number might not be displayed on all location codes for all servers. If the mmm value is not displayed, the location code is displayed in one of the following forms: Utttt.sssssss-A1 Uffff.sssssss-A1 The location code is hierarchical; that is, each location identifier in the string represents a physical part. The order (from left to right), in which each identifier is shown, allows you to determine which parts contain other parts in the string. The dash (-) separator character represents a relationship between two components in the unit. In the example of the fan, whose location code is Un-A1, the dash shows that the fan (A1) is contained in the base unit (or Un). Modules, adapters, cables, and devices are all parts that are plugged into another part. Their location codes always show that they are plugged into another part as components of the server. Another example follows: Un-P1-C9 is a memory DIMM (C9) that is plugged into a backplane (P1), which is inside the unit (Un).  For devices, certain error conditions might cause an  device to display the device location in an  format. Unit type (Utttt.mmm) Link to location information U8202.E4B or U8205.E6B  or   Location code labelsThe location code label represents a physical part of the server. The following table describes the prefixes of location code labels.  These labels apply to system units only. Prefix Description Example A Air-moving device Fan, blower C Card connector IOP, IOA, DIMM, processor card D Device Diskette, control panel E Electrical Battery, power supply, ac charger L Logical path SAS target Integrated drive electronics (IDE) address, Fibre Channel LUN N Horizontal placement for an empty rack location   P Planar System backplane T Port, external cable   U Unit   V Virtual planar   W Worldwide unique ID   X EIA value for an empty rack location   Y Firmware FRU   Worldwide unique identifierThe location code label for the worldwide unique identifier consists of the prefix W followed by a maximum of 16 uppercase hexadecimal digits with no leading zeros. A location code might not consist of a worldwide unique identifier. When present, the worldwide unique identifier location label follows the location label of the resource that interfaces with the resource that has the worldwide unique identifier, usually a port. Parent topic:          
 , , , or  The information provided in this topic defines specific sections of a location code string. Use this information to understand the meaning of a location code. Using location codesUse the following table to link to a specific topic that you need additional information about when reading your location code. Location code topics Description Contains background information on the use of location codes. Provides a definition for physical location code. Provides a definition of what a logical location code is. Provides descriptive information of the Un value in the location code string. For example, U789C.001.  Provides a table that identifies and defines the location code labels. The location code labels begin with an alphabetic character and follow the system serial number. For example, U789C.001.10ABCDE-P3-C31-T2-L23. The system serial number is 10ABCDE in the previous example. P3, C31, T2, and L23 all contain an alphabetic character that is identified in the Location code labels table. Provides a definition for the world unique identifier. This group of digits follows the resource code labels and always begins with the letter W. Location code overviewServers (system unit and expansion units) use physical location codes to provide mapping of replaceable units. Location codes are produced by the server's firmware, which positions them so that they can be used to identify specific parts in a system. The location code format is the same for all servers. If you are working with a specific location code, the unit type and model immediately follow the first character (Utttt.mmm). Match the unit type and model to a link, as shown in the Unit type and locations table. If the location code ends with , the server's firmware could not identify the physical location. When a physical location cannot be identified, a logical location code is provided. Where logical location codes occur in enclosures, the locations topic for the enclosure has the known conversions listed. For logical location codes with no conversion, contact your next level of support. If the location code begins with , the machine type, model, and serial number of the expansion I/O unit have not been set yet, and this is a temporary unit identifier. To identify the unit, examine the display panels on all of the expansion I/O units that are connected to the server until you find one with the same characters in the first 5 digits of the top line in the unit's display. Record the unit's real machine type and model from the unit label.   Match the unit's machine type and model in the Unit type and locations table and follow the link to determine the service information.  Locations for units that are not in the preceding list are either not supported or there is a problem in the firmware. Contact your next level of support. Physical location codesPhysical location codes provide a mapping of logical functions and components (such as backplanes, removable modules, connectors, ports, cables, and devices) to their specific locations within the physical structure of the server. Logical location codesIf the physical location cannot be mapped to a physical location code, the server's firmware generates a logical location code. A logical location code is a sequence of location labels that identifies the path that the system uses to communicate with a given resource.  A resource has as many logical location codes as it has logical connections to the system. For example, an external tape device connected to two I/O adapters has two logical location codes. An example of a logical location code is: U789C.001.10ABCDE-P3-C31-T2-L23 The first part of the location code (through the T2 label) represents the physical location code for the resource that communicates with the target resource. The remainder of the logical location code (L23) represents which resource is indicated. Location code formatThe location code is an alphanumeric string of variable length, consisting of a series of location identifiers, separated by a dash.  An example of a physical location for a fan is Un-A1.  The first position, represented by Un (where n is equal to any string contained between the U and the hyphen) in the preceding example, is displayed in one of the forms in the following table.  In location codes the U is a constant digit; however, the numbered positions that follow the U are variables and are dependent on your server. Each column defines the numbers that follow the U in the beginning of the location code.  Machine type and model number in a location code Feature codes and sequence numbers in a location code  Utttt.mmm.sssssss-A1  Uffff.ccc.sssssss-A1 The leftmost code is always U. The leftmost code is always U. tttt represents the unit type of the enclosure (drawer or node). ffff represents the feature code of the enclosure (drawer or node). mmm represents the model of the enclosure. ccc represents the sequence number of the enclosure . sssssss represents the serial number for the enclosure. sssssss represents the serial number of the enclosure.   The mmm or ccc number might not be displayed on all location codes for all servers. If the mmm value is not displayed, the location code is displayed in one of the following forms: Utttt.sssssss-A1 Uffff.sssssss-A1 The location code is hierarchical; that is, each location identifier in the string represents a physical part. The order (from left to right), in which each identifier is shown, helps you determine which parts contain other parts in the string. The dash (-) separator character represents a relationship between two components in the unit. In the example of the fan, whose location code is Un-A1, the dash shows that the fan (A1) is contained in the base unit (or Un). Modules, adapters, cables, and devices are all parts that are plugged into another part. Their location codes always show that they are plugged into another part as components of the server. Another example follows: Un-P1-C9 is a memory DIMM (C9) that is plugged into a backplane (P1), which is inside the unit (Un).  For devices, certain error conditions might cause an  device to display the device location in an  format. Unit type (Utttt.mmm) Link to location information U78AA.001 , , , or   Location code labelsThe location code label represents a physical part of the server. The following table describes the prefixes of location code labels.  These labels apply to system units only. Prefix Description Example A Air-moving device Fan, blower C Card connector IOP, IOA, DIMM, processor card D Device Diskette, control panel E Electrical Battery, power supply, ac charger L Logical path SAS target Integrated drive electronics (IDE) address, Fibre Channel LUN N Horizontal placement for an empty rack location   P Planar System backplane T Port, external cable   U Unit   V Virtual planar   W Worldwide unique ID   X EIA value for an empty rack location   Y Firmware FRU   Worldwide unique identifierThe location code label for the worldwide unique identifier consists of the prefix W followed by a maximum of 16 uppercase hexadecimal digits with no leading zeros. A location code might not consist of a worldwide unique identifier. When present, the worldwide unique identifier location label follows the location label of the resource that interfaces with the resource that has the worldwide unique identifier, usually a port. Parent topic:          
 , , , or  locations Use this information to help you map a location code to a position on the unit. The following diagrams show field replaceable unit (FRU) layouts in the system. Use these diagrams with the following tables. Rack views     Stand-alone views for the  or        Memory card locations   PCIe SAS RAID and SSD adapter locations   The following table provides location codes for parts that comprise the server. Failing item name Physical location code Identify LED Failing item removal and replacement procedures System unit  Un     Fans   Fan 1 Un-A1 Yes See . Fan 2 Un-A2 Yes Fan 3 Un-A3 Yes Fan 4 Un-A4 Yes   Power supplies   Power supply 1  Un-E1 Yes See . Power supply 1 - Cord connector Un-E1-T1 Yes Power supply 2  Un-E2 Yes Power supply 2 - Cord connector Un-E2-T1 Yes Backplanes   System backplane Un-P1 Yes See . Time-of-day Un-P1     Time-of-day battery Un-P1-E1   See . Disk drive backplane Un-P2 Yes See . Ports   System port 1 Un-P1-T1 No   System port 2 Un-P1-T2 No   SPCN port 1 Un-P1-T3 No   SPCN port 2 Un-P1-T4 No   HMC port 1 Un-P1-T5 No   HMC port 2 Un-P1-T6 No   USB port 1 Un-P1-T7 No   USB port 2 Un-P1-T8 No   Processor and processor regulator    processor module 1 Un-P1-C11 Yes See .  processor module 2 Un-P1-C10 Yes  processor module 1 VRM Un-P1-C12 Yes See .  processor module 2 VRM Un-P1-C9 Yes Adapters    riser (Optional card at GX++ slot 1 location) Un-P1-C1 Yes See .  expansion feature - PCIe x8 slot 7 Un-P1-C1-C1 Yes  expansion feature - PCIe x8 slot 8 Un-P1-C1-C2 Yes  expansion feature - PCIe x8 slot 9 Un-P1-C1-C3 Yes  expansion feature - PCIe x8 slot 10 Un-P1-C1-C4 Yes  x8 G2 slot 1 Un-P1-C2 Yes  x8 G2 slot 2 Un-P1-C3 Yes  x8 G2 slot 3 Un-P1-C4 Yes  x8 G2 slot 4 Un-P1-C5 Yes  x8 G2 slot 5 Un-P1-C6 Yes  x8 G2 slot 6 Un-P1-C7 Yes  slot 1 Un-P1-C1 Yes See .  slot 1 IB-2 card - Port 1 Un-P1-C1-T1 Yes  slot 1 IB-2 card - Port 2 Un-P1-C1-T2 Yes  slot 1 card - Port 1 Un-P1-C1-T1 Yes  slot 1 card - Port 2 Un-P1-C1-T2 Yes  slot 2 You can either install the  in Un-P1-C2 or the  riser in Un-P1-C1 , but not both at the same time. Un-P1-C8 Yes  slot 2 IB-2 card - Port 1 Un-P1-C8-T1 Yes  slot 2 IB-2 card - Port 2 Un-P1-C8-T2 Yes  slot 2 card - Port 1 Un-P1-C8-T1 Yes  slot 2 card - Port 2 Un-P1-C8-T2 Yes  expansion feature - Fan 1 Un-P1-C1-A1 Yes    expansion feature - Fan 2 Un-P1-C1-A2 Yes   System VPD card Un-P1-C20     Cache battery card Un-P1-C14 Yes See . Battery on cache battery card Un-P1-C14-E1 Yes RAID storage controller or RAID and cache storage controller Un-P1-C19 Yes Battery on RAID and cache storage controller Un-P1-C19-E1 Yes  Memory modules   Memory card 1 Un-P1-C18 Yes See . Memory card 1 - DIMM 1 Un-P1-C18-C1 Yes   Memory card 1 - DIMM 2 Un-P1-C18-C2 Yes  The DIMM fault and identify LED is not visible when the system is in the service position. Memory card 1 - DIMM 3 Un-P1-C18-C3 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 4 Un-P1-C18-C4 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 5 Un-P1-C18-C7 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 6 Un-P1-C18-C8 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 7 Un-P1-C18-C9 Yes Memory card 1 - DIMM 8 Un-P1-C18-C10 Yes Memory card 2 Un-P1-C17 Yes See . Memory card 2 - DIMM 1 Un-P1-C17-C1 Yes   Memory card 2 - DIMM 2 Un-P1-C17-C2 Yes  The DIMM fault and identify LED is not visible when the system is in the service position. Memory card 2 - DIMM 3 Un-P1-C17-C3 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 4 Un-P1-C17-C4 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 5 Un-P1-C17-C7 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 6 Un-P1-C17-C8 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 7 Un-P1-C17-C9 Yes Memory card 2 - DIMM 8 Un-P1-C17-C10 Yes Memory card 3 Un-P1-C16 Yes See . Memory card 3 - DIMM 1 Un-P1-C16-C1 Yes   Memory card 3 - DIMM 2 Un-P1-C16-C2 Yes  The DIMM fault and identify LED is not visible when the system is in the service position. Memory card 3 - DIMM 3 Un-P1-C16-C3 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 4 Un-P1-C16-C4 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 5 Un-P1-C16-C7 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 6 Un-P1-C16-C8 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 7 Un-P1-C16-C9 Yes Memory card 3 - DIMM 8 Un-P1-C16-C10 Yes Memory card 4 Un-P1-C15 Yes See . Memory card 4 - DIMM 1 Un-P1-C15-C1 Yes  The DIMM fault and identify LED is not visible when the system is in the service position. Memory card 4 - DIMM 2 Un-P1-C15-C2 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 3 Un-P1-C15-C3 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 4 Un-P1-C15-C4 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 5 Un-P1-C15-C7 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 6 Un-P1-C15-C8 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 7 Un-P1-C15-C9 Yes Memory card 4 - DIMM 8 Un-P1-C15-C10 Yes   Device physical locations   Tape drive (SAS) Un-P1-D1 No   Tape drive (USB) Un-P1-D2 No   Disk drive 1 Un-P2-D1 Yes See . Disk drive 2 Un-P2-D2 Yes Disk drive 3 Un-P2-D3 Yes Disk drive 4 Un-P2-D4 Yes Disk drive 5 Un-P2-D5 Yes Disk drive 6 Un-P2-D6 Yes Disk drive 7 Un-P2-D7 Yes Disk drive 8 Un-P2-D8 Yes Solid-state disk drive 1 on PCIe SAS RAID and SSD adapter Un -P1-Cx-D1 or Un -P1-C1-Cx-D1 No Solid-state disk drive 2 on PCIe SAS RAID and SSD adapter Un -P1-Cx-D2 or Un -P1-C1-Cx-D2 No Solid-state disk drive 3 on PCIe SAS RAID and SSD adapter Un -P1-Cx-D3 or Un -P1-C1-Cx-D3 No Solid-state disk drive 4 on PCIe SAS RAID and SSD adapter Un -P1-Cx-D4 or Un -P1-C1-Cx-D4 No DVD Un-P2-D9 Yes   SAS port Un-P2-T1 No   Embedded SAS controller Un-P1-T9 No   Control panel   Control panel Un -D1 No See . Temperature sensor Un -D1 No   Control panel - USB port Un -D1-T1 No   Server firmware   Server firmware  Um-Y1     Parent topic:  Related reference:         
 Fans and fan cages for the  Learn how to remove and replace the system fans and fan cages for the  systems. Replacing this feature is a customer task. You can perform this task yourself, or contact an authorized service provider to perform the task for you. You might be charged a fee by the authorized service provider for this service. You can view and print a PDF of this information. Use these procedures to remove and replace the front fans. Use these procedures to remove and replace the fan cages. Use these procedures to remove and replace the middle fans.    |      
 Removing and replacing the fan cages Use these procedures to remove and replace the fan cages. Use this procedure to remove the fan cage. Use this procedure to replace the fan cage. Parent topic:     |      
 Removing the  fan cages Use this procedure to remove the fan cage. If your system is managed by the  (), use the  to remove a fan cage from the server. For instructions, see . If your system is managed by the  (), use the  to remove a fan cage from the server. For instructions, see . If you do not have an  , complete the following steps to remove a fan cage:  For a rack-mounted system, see . For a stand-alone system, see .   Attach a wrist strap to an unpainted metal surface of your hardware to prevent electrostatic discharge (ESD) from damaging your hardware. When using a wrist strap, follow all electrical safety procedures.  A wrist strap is for static control. It does not increase or decrease your risk of receiving electric shock when using or working on electrical equipment. If you do not have a wrist strap, just prior to removing the product from ESD packaging and installing or replacing hardware, touch an unpainted metal surface of the system for a minimum of 5 seconds.     The fan cage must be removed with caution as you need to thread the cable through an opening in the chassis. If you removed the fan cage as part of another service action, or if you need to replace the fan cage that you removed, see . Parent topic:     |      
 Removing a part by using the  You can use the  () to perform many service actions, including the removal of a field-replaceable unit (FRU) or part. To remove a part in a system or expansion unit that is managed by an , complete the following steps:    The  might open external instructions for removing the part. If so, follow those instructions to remove the part. Parent topic:     |      
 Before you begin Observe these precautions when you are installing, removing, or replacing features and parts. These precautions are intended to create a safe environment to service your system and do not provide steps for servicing your system. The installation, removal, and replacement procedures provide the step-by-step  processes required to service your system. DANGERWhen working on or around the system, observe the following precautions:Electrical voltage and current from power, telephone, and communication cables are hazardous. To avoid a shock hazard: Connect power to this unit only with the provided power cord.  Do not use the provided power cord for any other product. Do not open or service any power supply assembly. Do not connect or disconnect any cables or perform installation, maintenance, or reconfiguration of this product during an electrical storm. The product might be equipped with multiple power cords.  To remove all hazardous voltages, disconnect all power cords. Connect all power cords to a properly wired and grounded electrical outlet.  Ensure that the outlet supplies proper voltage and phase rotation according to the system rating plate. Connect any equipment that will be attached to this product to properly wired outlets. When possible, use one hand only to connect or disconnect signal cables. Never turn on any equipment when there is evidence of fire, water, or structural damage. Disconnect the attached power cords, telecommunications systems, networks, and modems before you open the device covers, unless instructed otherwise in the installation and configuration procedures. Connect and disconnect cables as described in the following procedures when installing, moving, or opening covers on this product or attached devices. To Disconnect: Turn off everything (unless instructed otherwise). Remove the power cords from the outlets. Remove the signal cables from the connectors. Remove all cables from the devices. To Connect: Turn off everything (unless instructed otherwise). Attach all cables to the devices. Attach the signal cables to the connectors. Attach the power cords to the outlets. Turn on the devices. DANGERObserve the following precautions when working on or around your IT rack system:Heavy equipment–personal injury or equipment damage might result if mishandled. Always lower the leveling pads on the rack cabinet. Always install stabilizer brackets on the rack cabinet. To avoid hazardous conditions due to uneven mechanical loading, always install the heaviest devices in the bottom of the rack cabinet.  Always install servers and optional devices starting from the bottom of the rack cabinet. Rack-mounted devices are not to be used as shelves or work spaces.  Do not place objects on top of rack-mounted devices. Each rack cabinet might have more than one power cord.  Be sure to disconnect all power cords in the rack cabinet when directed to disconnect power during servicing. Connect all devices installed in a rack cabinet to power devices installed in the same rack cabinet.  Do not plug a power cord from a device installed in one rack cabinet into a power device installed in a different rack cabinet. An electrical outlet that is not correctly wired could place hazardous voltage on the metal parts of the system or the devices that attach to the system.  It is the responsibility of the customer to ensure that the outlet is correctly wired and grounded to prevent an electrical shock. CAUTION Do not install a unit in a rack where the internal rack ambient temperatures will exceed the manufacturer's recommended ambient temperature for all your rack-mounted devices. Do not install a unit in a rack where the air flow is compromised.  Ensure that air flow is not blocked or reduced on any side, front, or back of a unit used for air flow through the unit. Consideration should be given to the connection of the equipment to the supply circuit so that overloading of the circuits does not compromise the supply wiring or overcurrent protection.  To provide the correct power connection to a rack, refer to the rating labels located on the equipment in the rack to determine the total power requirement of the supply circuit. (For sliding drawers.)   Do not pull out or install any drawer or feature if the rack stabilizer brackets are not attached to the rack. Do not pull out more than one drawer at a time.  The rack might become unstable if you pull out more than one drawer at a time. (For fixed drawers.) This drawer is a fixed drawer and must not be moved for servicing unless specified by the manufacturer.  Attempting to move the drawer partially or completely out of the rack might cause the rack to become unstable or cause the drawer to fall out of the rack.  (R001) Before you begin a replacement or installation procedure, perform these tasks:   Blue or terra-cotta on a part of the hardware indicates a touch point where you can grip the hardware to remove it from or install it in the system, open or close a latch, and so on. Terra-cotta might also indicate that the part can be removed and replaced with the system or logical partition power on.   If you are replacing a part, contact the provider of your parts or next level of support. If you are installing a feature, contact one of the following service organizations: The provider of your parts or next level of support. In the United States, the IBM Rochester Manufacturing Automated Information Line (R–MAIL) at 1–800–300–8751. In countries and regions outside of the United States, use the following website to locate your service and support telephone numbers:  Parent topic:     |      
 Logical partitioning You can set up, manage, and troubleshoot  logical partitions using the  (), , or . By creating logical partitions, you can reduce the footprint of your datacenter by consolidating servers, and maximize the use of system resources by sharing resources across logical partitions. Read about new or changed information in Logical partitioning since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF of the logical partitioning information. Logical partitioning is the ability to make a server run as if it were two or more independent servers. When you logically partition a server, you divide the resources on the server into subsets called logical partitions. You can install software on a logical partition, and the logical partition runs as an independent logical server with the resources that you have allocated to the logical partition.  One of the best ways to learn about logical partitions is to see examples illustrating how many of the applications and functions can be used in a sample business environment. Use these scenarios to learn how you can use logical partitions in your business. You can create logical partitions to distribute resources within a single server and make it function as if it were two or more independent servers. Before creating logical partitions, you must assess your current and future needs. You can then use this information to determine the hardware configuration that will meet your current needs and serve as a base for meeting your future needs.  The  () is a system that controls managed systems, including the management of logical partitions and use of Capacity Upgrade on Demand. Using service applications, the  communicates with managed systems to detect, consolidate, and forward information  for analysis. You can use the  (), a component of the  hardware feature, to manage your  and client logical partitions.         
 What's new in Logical partitioning Read about new or changed information in Logical partitioning since the previous update of this topic collection. April 2014The following topics are new for single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) logical ports: The following topics were updated for SR-IOV logical ports: October 2013The following topics were updated for virtual Ethernet adapters: The following topic is new for querying affinity scores of  the logical partition: The following topics were updated for querying affinity scores of  the logical partition: The following topic is new for scheduling Dynamic Platform Optimizer (DPO) operations: The following topic was updated for scheduling DPO operations: The following topic was updated for Shared Ethernet Adapters: The following topics are new for the synchronization of the current configuration capability: The following topics were updated for synchronization of the current configuration capability: March 2013The following topics are new for logical partitions that use the virtual server network (VSN):  The following topics were updated for logical partitions that use the VSN:  The following topic was updated for installing the  () software:  October 2012The following information is new for the processing units to virtual processor ratio of logical partitions:  The following information is updated for the processing units to virtual processor ratio of logical partitions:  The following information is new for the Dynamic Platform Optimizer (DPO) feature:  The following information is updated for the Dynamic Platform Optimizer (DPO) feature:  May 2012The following information is new or updated for the Trusted Firewall feature:  The following information is updated for the  partitions that can be moved from one system to another:  Dec 2011The following updates have been made to the content: On the  Version 2.2.1.3, or later, you can create a cluster that consists of up to four  partitions connected to the shared storage pool and that has access to distributed storage. The following information is updated for shared storage pools: Oct 2011The following updates have been made to the content: With  Version 7.7.4, or later, and  processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.4, or later, you can enable Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) on an  logical partition. A logical partition that is enabled for VTPM has the Trusted Boot capability. Trusted Boot is an offering that is supported on the Power® Security and Compliance (PowerSC) Standard Edition. The following information is new or updated for logical partitions that have the Trusted Boot capability:  The  Version 7.7.4, or later, provides the capability to provision shared storage pools. The following information is new or updated for shared storage pools: May 2011The following updates have been made to the content: On  processor-based servers, with firmware at level 7.3, or later, and  Version 7.7.3, or later, you can suspend an  logical partition with its operating system and applications. When an  logical partition is suspended, the state of the logical partition is saved on persistent storage, and the server resources used by the logical partition are made available for other logical partitions. The operation of the suspended logical partition and its applications can be resumed on the same system. The following information is new or updated for  partitions with the Suspend/Resume feature: If you are using  Version 7.7.3, or later, you can use the command-line interface to override the default value of the HPT ratio. The following information is new or updated for the HPT ratio: December 2010The following updates have been made to the content: With the  version 7 release 7.2.0, or later, you can suspend a running AIX or Linux logical partition with its operating system and applications. Only  processor-based servers support the Suspend/Resume feature. When a logical partition is suspended, the state of the logical partition is saved on persistent storage, and the server resources that were in use by that logical partition are made available for use by other logical partitions. At a later time, the operation of the suspended logical partition and its applications can be resumed. The following information is new or updated for partitions with the Suspend/Resume feature: On the VIOS Version 2.2.0.11, Fix Pack 24, Service Pack 1, or later, you can create a cluster of only one  partition connected to the shared storage pool and having access to distributed storage. The following information is new or updated for shared storage pools: September 2010The following updates have been made to the content: You can assign multiple virtual LANs (VLAN) to an already configured virtual Ethernet adapter that is being used by a running logical partition without restarting the logical partition. For a running logical partition, you can also remove or modify the VLANs. The following information is new or updated for modifying VLANs: You can configure the Quality of Service (QoS) priority levels for the virtual Ethernet adapter that is used by a logical partition. The following information is new for configuring the Quality of Service (QoS) priority levels: You can configure the MAC address controls assigned to a virtual Ethernet adapter and the logical Host Ethernet Adapter that is used by a logical partition. The following information is new for MAC address controls: February 2010The following updates have been made to the content: Information was added and removed for servers that contain the  processor as follows:You can create a system plan by using the  (). However, the  does not collect  provisioning information. You can deploy a system plan to a server by using the . The  creates the logical partitions and configures their resources as defined in the system plan. However, the  does not deploy the operating system environment or provision VIOS resources. You can use the  (SPT) to create a system plan for a server that is managed by the . Then, you can use the system plan to help you order a system. However, you cannot use the  () to view, import, export, create, deploy, or delete a system plan. You can use Operations Console to connect to  logical partitions over a network (LAN connection). You cannot use the twinaxial console or Operations Console through a console that is attached to a serial port that is owned by the  logical partition (directly attached connection).  processor-based servers do not support I/O pools for  logical partitions.  processor-based servers do not support the high-speed link (HSL) OptiConnect feature for  logical partitions. You can expand the memory capacity of an  logical partition by configuring . With , the logical partition can do more work with the same amount of memory. The following information is new or updated for : With the  version 7 release 7.1.0, or later, you can activate a logical partition based on its current configuration instead of a partition profile. Logical partitions start faster when activated based on their current configuration data than when activated with a partition profile. The following information is new or updated for fast activation: Parent topic:          
 Verifying that the server supports single root I/O virtualization  Before you enable single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV ) shared mode for an SR-IOV capable adapter, verify that the server supports the SR-IOV feature by using the  (). SR-IOV is a Peripheral Component Interconnect Special Interest Group specification to allow multiple partitions that are running simultaneously within a single computer to share  a Peripheral Component Interconnect-Express (PCIe) device.  To verify that the server supports SR-IOV, complete the following steps:  If  is , the SR-IOV adapter can be configured in the shared mode and can be shared by multiple logical partitions. If  is ,  the SR-IOV adapter can be configured in the shared mode but can be used by only one logical partition. If  is not displayed,  the server does not support the SR-IOV feature.  Parent topic:          
 Planning for logical partitions You can create logical partitions to distribute resources within a single server and make it function as if it were two or more independent servers. Before creating logical partitions, you must assess your current and future needs. You can then use this information to determine the hardware configuration that will meet your current needs and serve as a base for meeting your future needs.  Planning for logical partitions is a multistep process. Here are the recommended tasks for planning for logical partitions.     __ Compile a list of the questions that you must answer before you create logical partition on an existing system or place your order for new hardware. The following is the list of questions: What are your existing workloads? How many resources do these workloads currently require (during typical usage and at peak usage)? What are your future needs? How will your existing workloads grow over the life of your system? How many new workloads will you have to support over the life of your system?  Do you have an existing system onto which you can consolidate the workloads? Must you upgrade the existing system before you consolidate the workloads? Does it make more sense to purchase a new system for these workloads? What physical infrastructure will you have to support any new hardware? Can your current location accommodate the new hardware? Must you upgrade your power infrastructure or your cooling infrastructure? Will your new hardware work with your existing hardware? Which hardware features will you use? For example, do you want to use virtual I/O to consolidate I/O resources? Must you obtain activation codes or enablement codes to use these features? Must you obtain additional licenses to run your applications? If so, how many additional licenses do you need? Does the support strategy for you new hardware differ from the support strategy for your existing hardware? If so, what changes must you make to maximize the effectiveness of the new support strategy? Must you migrate your workloads onto new hardware? If so, what must you do to migrate these workloads? __ Your system has many features that allow you to use system resources more efficiently and simplify daily tasks. For more information about what these features are and how these features work, see . __ IBM® provides many tools that you can use to assess your needs, determine the hardware that you need to accommodate existing and future needs, and compile an order for the hardware that you need. These tools include: IBM Prerequisite website The  website provides you with compatibility information for hardware features. This site helps you plan a successful system upgrade by providing you with the prerequisite information for features that you currently have or plan to add to your system.  IBM Systems Workload Estimator  The  (WLE) estimates the computer resources that are required for Domino®, WebSphere® Commerce, WebSphere, Web Serving, and traditional workloads. The WLE projects the most current server models that meet the capacity requirements that are within the CPU percent utilization objectives.  IBM  The  () emulates a logical partition configuration and validates that the planned logical partitions are valid. In addition, the  allows you to test the placement of  hardware within the system to ensure that the placement is valid.  Performance Toolbox  for POWER® The  is a licensed program that provides a comprehensive tool for monitoring and tuning system performance in distributed environments. __ Monitor resource usage on your existing servers to determine the amounts of resources that you currently use in your operation. You will use this information as a basis for determining the resources that you require on the consolidated system.  __ Analyze the workloads that are to be consolidated onto your managed system and determine the amounts of resources that these workloads require. You will also want to calculate the resources that you will need for future growth and determine whether your hardware can accommodate this growth.  __  Determine whether you want to use the  (), the , or the  to create logical partitions and manage the system. To learn about these tools, see . __  Determine whether you want to set your logical partitions to use virtual I/O resources from a  logical partition. For more information, see . __ Design the logical partitions that you will create on the managed system, and assign resources to each logical partition so that the logical partitions can perform their assigned tasks efficiently.  __  Determine what types of physical and virtual adapters you want to use to connect logical partitions to each other and to external networks. For information about the different methods that you can use to connect logical partitions with each other and with external networks, see . __  Determine how you want to connect your managed system and its logical partitions with the  that manages the system. For more information about the ways in which you can connect your managed system with the , see . __  Determine how to apply fixes to your server and identify problems that need to be reported to your service provider. The  can be configured to report most problems to your service provider automatically. For more information about how to set up the  to report problems, see . __  Determine how many software licenses you need for your logical partition configuration. For instructions, see . The  () helps you design a managed system that can support a specified set of workloads.  Trusted Boot is a feature of Power® Security and Compliance (PowerSC™). Trusted Boot uses the Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) as described by the Trusted Computing Group. Up to 60 logical partitions per server can be configured to have their own unique VTPM by using the  (). The VTPM is used to record the system boot and, in association with the  Trusted Execution technology, provides security and assurance of the boot image on disk, on the entire operating system, and in the application layers.  With  () Version 2.2.1.4 or later, and  processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.4, or later, you can use the Trusted Firewall feature. Trusted Firewall is a feature of the PowerSC Editions. You can use the Trusted Firewall feature to provide a virtual firewall that allows network filtering and control within the local server. The virtual firewall improves performance and reduces the consumption of network resources by allowing direct and secure network traffic between logical partitions that are on different VLANs of the same server. Review the requirements for the system,  (VIOS), logical partitions, and paging space devices so that you can successfully configure shared memory.  When you suspend a logical partition, the operating system and applications running on the logical partition are also suspended, and its virtual server state is stored in persistent storage. At a later time, you can resume the operation of the logical partition. There are certain configurations requirements to make a logical partition capable of suspension.  Before planning to suspend a logical partition, verify that the server supports partitions that are capable of partition suspension by using the  (). Before planning to suspend a logical partition, verify that the logical partition can be suspended by using the  (). Before planning to enable a Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) on a logical partition, verify that the server supports VTPM by using the  (). If you are using the  () Version 7 Release 7.7.0, or later, you can use Virtual Station Interface (VSI) profiles with virtual Ethernet adapters in logical partitions and assign the Virtual Ethernet Port Aggregator (VEPA) switching mode to virtual Ethernet switches. Before planning to enable the virtual server network (VSN), verify that the server uses VSN by using the  (). Before you enable single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV ) shared mode for an SR-IOV capable adapter, verify that the server supports the SR-IOV feature by using the  (). SR-IOV is a Peripheral Component Interconnect Special Interest Group specification to allow multiple partitions that are running simultaneously within a single computer to share  a Peripheral Component Interconnect-Express (PCIe) device.  You can view the logical port limit and the owner of the single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) adapter by using the  (). Before you configure the shared memory pool and create logical partitions that use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions), you need to plan for the shared memory pool, the shared memory partitions, the paging space devices, and the  logical partitions (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partitions).  You need to consider the degree to which you want to overcommit the physical memory in the shared memory pool, the performance of the workloads when running in a shared memory configuration that is overcommitted, and the minimum and maximum boundaries of the shared memory pool. If you use  licensed programs on a server with logical partitions, consider how many software licenses are required for your logical partition configuration. Careful consideration of your software might help minimize the number of software licenses that you must purchase. Each logical partition requires at least a certain amount of hardware resources. You can assign hardware resources directly to a logical partition, or you can set the logical partition to use the hardware resources that are assigned to another logical partition. The minimum hardware configuration requirements for each logical partition depend on the operating system or software installed on the logical partition. Parent topic:          
 Logical partition overview Logical partitioning is the ability to make a server run as if it were two or more independent servers. When you logically partition a server, you divide the resources on the server into subsets called logical partitions. You can install software on a logical partition, and the logical partition runs as an independent logical server with the resources that you have allocated to the logical partition.  You can assign processors, memory, and input/output devices to logical partitions. You can run  and the  in logical partitions. The  provides virtual I/O resources to other logical partitions with general-purpose operating systems. Logical partitions share a few system attributes, such as the system serial number, system model, and processor feature code. All other system attributes can vary from one logical partition to another. You must use tools to create logical partitions on your servers. The tool that you use to create logical partitions on each server depends on the server model and the operating systems and features that you want to use on the server. When you create logical partitions on your server, you can consolidate servers, share system resources, create mixed environments, and run integrated clusters. Although each logical partition acts as an independent server, the logical partitions on a server can share some kinds of resources with each other. The ability to share resources among many logical partitions allows you to increase resource utilization on the server and to move the server resources to where they are needed.  A managed system is a single physical server plus the resources that are connected to the physical server. The physical server and the connected resources are managed by the physical server as a single unit. Connected resources can include expansion units, towers, and drawers, and storage area network (SAN) resources that are assigned to the server. The manufacturing default configuration is the initial single partition setup of the managed system as received from your service provider.  You must use tools to create logical partitions on your servers. The tool that you use to create logical partitions on each server depends upon the server model and the operating systems and features that you want to use on the server. When you create logical partitions on a managed system, you can assign the physical resources on the managed system directly to logical partitions. You can also share hardware resources among logical partitions by virtualizing those hardware resources. The methods used to virtualize and share hardware resources depend on the type of resource that you are sharing. Learn how to integrate  with  applications and data. You can use the logical partitioning examples to consolidate servers, use computing resources more efficiently, and increase the flexibility of your enterprise. Parent topic:          
 Benefits of logical partitioning When you create logical partitions on your server, you can consolidate servers, share system resources, create mixed environments, and run integrated clusters. The following scenarios illustrate the benefits of partitioning your server: Consolidating servers A logically partitioned server can reduce the number of servers that are needed within an enterprise. You can consolidate several servers into a single logically partitioned system. This eliminates the need for, and expense of, additional equipment. Sharing resources You can quickly and easily move hardware resources from one logical partition to another as needs change. Technologies such as the  technology, allow for processor resources to be shared automatically among logical partitions that use a shared processor pool.  Other technologies, such as dynamic partitioning, allow for resources to be manually moved to, from, and between running logical partitions without shutting down or restarting the logical partitions.   Maintaining independent servers Dedicating a portion of the resources (disk storage unit, processors, memory, and I/O devices) to a logical partition achieves logical isolation of software. If configured correctly, logical partitions also have some hardware fault tolerance.   Creating a mixed production and test environment You can create a combined production and test environment on the same server. The production logical partition can run your main business applications, and the test logical partition is used to test software. A failure in a test logical partition, while not necessarily planned, does not disrupt normal business operations.  Merging production and test environments Partitioning enables separate logical partitions to be allocated for production and test servers, eliminating the need to purchase additional hardware and software. When testing has been completed, the resources allocated to the test logical partition can be returned to the production logical partition or elsewhere as required. As new projects are developed, they can be built and tested on the same hardware on which they are eventually deployed.  Running integrated clusters Using high-availability application software, your partitioned server can run as an integrated cluster. You can use an integrated cluster to protect your server from most unscheduled failures within a logical partition. Although there are many benefits to creating logical partitions, consider the following points before choosing to use logical partitions: Processor and memory failures might result in the failure of the entire server with all of its logical partitions. (The failure of a single I/O device affects only the logical partition to which the I/O device belongs.) To reduce the possibility of system failure, you can use the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI) to set the server to unconfigure failing processors or memory modules automatically. After the server unconfigures the failing processor or memory module, the server continues running without using the unconfigured processor or memory module. Administering a consolidated system might be more difficult in some ways than administering multiple smaller systems, particularly if the resources in the consolidated system are used at a level close to their capacity. If you anticipate that you will use your server at a level close to its capacity, consider ordering a server model that is capable of Capacity on Demand (CoD). Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Sharing resources between logical partitions Although each logical partition acts as an independent server, the logical partitions on a server can share some kinds of resources with each other. The ability to share resources among many logical partitions allows you to increase resource utilization on the server and to move the server resources to where they are needed.  The following list illustrates some of the ways in which logical partitions can share resources. For some server models, the features mentioned in this list are options for which you must obtain and enter an activation code: The  technology (or shared processing) allows logical partitions to share the processors in shared processor pools. Each logical partition that uses shared processors is assigned a specific amount of processor power from its shared processor pool. By default, each logical partition is set so that the logical partition uses no more than its assigned processor power. Optionally, you can set a logical partition so that the logical partition can use processor power that is not being used by other logical partitions in its shared processor pool. If you set the logical partition so that it can use unused processor power, the amount of processor power that the logical partition can use is limited by the virtual processor settings of the logical partition and by the amount of unused processor power available in the shared processor pool that is used by the logical partition. The Dynamic partitioning feature allows you to manually move resources to, from, and between running logical partitions without shutting down or restarting the logical partitions. This allows you to share devices that logical partitions use occasionally. For example, if the logical partitions on your server use an optical drive occasionally, you can assign a single optical drive to multiple logical partitions as a desired device. The optical drive would belong to only one logical partition at a time, but you can use dynamic partitioning to move the optical drive between logical partitions as needed.  Virtual I/O allows logical partitions to access and use I/O resources on other logical partitions. For example, virtual Ethernet allows you to create a virtual LAN that connects the logical partitions on your server to each other. If one of the logical partitions on the server has a physical Ethernet adapter that is connected to an external network, you can configure the operating system of that logical partition to connect the virtual LAN with the physical Ethernet adapter. This allows the logical partitions on the server to share a physical Ethernet connection to an external network. A  (HEA), or Integrated Virtual Ethernet (IVE), allows multiple logical partitions on the same  to share a single physical Ethernet adapter. Unlike most other types of I/O devices, you can never assign the HEA itself to a logical partition. Instead, multiple logical partitions can connect directly to the HEA and use the HEA resources. This allows these logical partitions to access external networks through the HEA without having to go through an Ethernet bridge on another logical partition. The single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) specification defines extensions to the PCI Express® (PCIe) specification. SR-IOV allows virtualization of the physical ports of an adapter so that the ports can be shared by multiple partitions that are running simultaneously. For example, a single physical Ethernet port appears as several separate physical devices. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Shared processors Shared processors are physical processors whose processing capacity is shared among multiple logical partitions. The ability to divide physical processors and share them among multiple logical partitions is known as the  technology.  For some models, the  technology is an option for which you must obtain and enter a  activation code.  By default, all physical processors that are not dedicated to specific logical partitions are grouped together in a shared processor pool. You can assign a specific amount of the processing capacity in this shared processor pool to each logical partition that uses shared processors. Some models allow you to use the  to configure multiple shared processor pools. These models have a default shared processor pool that contains all the processors that do not belong to logical partitions that use dedicated processors or logical partitions that use other shared processor pools. The other shared processor pools on these models can be configured with a maximum processing unit value and a reserved processing unit  value. The maximum processing unit  value limits the total number of processing unit  that can be used by the logical partitions in the shared processor pool. The reserved processing unit  value is the number of processing units that are reserved for the use of uncapped logical partitions within the shared processor pool. You can assign partial processors to a logical partition that uses shared processors. Processing units are a unit of measure for shared processing power across one or more virtual processors. One shared processing unit on one virtual processor accomplishes approximately the same work as one dedicated processor.  The minimum number of processing units depends on the firmware level.Firmware level Minimum number of processing units per virtual processor Version 7.4, or earlier 0.10 Version 7.6, or later 0.05 Some server models allow logical partitions to use only a portion of the total active processors on the managed system, so you are not always able to assign the full processing capacity of the managed system to logical partitions. This is particularly true for server models with one or two processors, where a large portion of processor resources is used as overhead.  When the firmware is at level 7.6, or later, overall server performance can be impacted when there are too many virtual processors configured on the managed system. You can verify the number of configured virtual processors by using the  command from the  command line. The result of the  command might look like the following output:lshwres -m sysname -r proc --level sys -F curr_sys_virtual_procs,max_recommended_sys_virtual_procs 4,240 where:curr_sys_virtual_procs indicates the current number of configured virtual processors.  max_recommended_sys_virtual_procs indicates the recommended maximum number of configured virtual processors. It is suggested that the number of configured virtual processors not exceed the maximum number so that server performance is not affected.  On -managed systems, shared processors are assigned to logical partitions using partition profiles. Logical partitions that use shared processors can have a sharing mode of capped or uncapped.  An uncapped logical partition is a logical partition that can use more processor power than its assigned processing capacity. The amount of processing capacity that an uncapped logical partition can use is limited only by the number of virtual processors assigned to the logical partition or the maximum processing unit  allowed by the shared processor pool that the logical partition uses. In contrast, a capped logical partition is a logical partition that cannot use more processor power than its assigned processing units.  For example, logical partitions 2 and 3 are uncapped logical partitions, and logical partition 4 is a capped logical partition. Logical partitions 2 and 3 are each assigned 3.00 processing units and four virtual processors. Logical partition 2 currently uses only 1.00 of its 3.00 processing units, but logical partition 3 currently has a workload demand that requires 4.00 processing units. Because logical partition 3 is uncapped and has four virtual processors, the server firmware automatically allows logical partition 3 to use 1.00 processing units from logical partition 2. This increases the processing power for logical partition 3 to 4.00 processing units. Soon afterwards, logical partition 2 increases its workload demand to 3.00 processing units. The server firmware therefore automatically returns 1.00 processing units to logical partition 2 so that logical partition 2 can use its full, assigned processing capacity once more. Logical partition 4 is assigned 2.00 processing units and three virtual processors, but currently has a workload demand that requires 3.00 processing units. Because logical partition 4 is capped, logical partition 4 cannot use any unused processing units from logical partitions 2 or 3. However, if the workload demand of logical partition 4 decreases below 2.00 processing units, logical partitions 2 and 3 could use any unused processing units from logical partition 4. By default, logical partitions that use shared processors are capped logical partitions. You can set a logical partition to be an uncapped logical partition if you want the logical partition to use more processing power than its assigned amount.  Although an uncapped logical partition can use more processor power than its assigned processing capacity, the uncapped logical partition can never use more processing units than its assigned number of virtual processors. Also, the logical partitions that use a shared processor pool can never use more processing units than the maximum processing units configured for the shared processor pool. If multiple uncapped logical partitions need additional processor capacity at the same time, the server can distribute the unused processing capacity to all uncapped logical partitions.  This distribution process is determined by the uncapped weight of each of the logical partitions.    Uncapped weight is a number in the range of 0 through 255 that you set for each uncapped logical partition in the shared processor pool. On the , you can choose from any of the 256 possible uncapped weight values.   By setting the uncapped weight (255 being the highest weight), any available unused capacity is distributed to contending logical partitions in proportion to the established value of the uncapped weight.  The default uncapped weight value is 128. When you set the uncapped weight to 0, no unused capacity is distributed to the logical partition. Uncapped weight is only used where there are more virtual processors ready to consume unused resources than there are physical processors in the shared processor pool. If no contention exists for processor resources, the virtual processors are immediately distributed across the logical partitions independent of their uncapped weights. This can result in situations where the uncapped weights of the logical partitions do not exactly reflect the amount of unused capacity.  For example, logical partition 2 has one virtual processor and an uncapped weight of 100. Logical partition 3 also has one virtual processor, but an uncapped weight of 200. If logical partitions 2 and 3 both require additional processing capacity, and there is not enough physical processor capacity to run both logical partitions, logical partition 3 receives two additional processing units for every additional processing unit that logical partition 2 receives. If logical partitions 2 and 3 both require additional processing capacity, and there is enough physical processor capacity to run both logical partitions, logical partition 2 and 3 receive an equal amount of unused capacity. In this situation, their uncapped weights are ignored. The server distributes unused capacity among all of the uncapped shared processor partitions that are configured on the server, regardless of the shared processor pools to which they are assigned.  For example, you configure logical partition 1 to the default shared processor pool. You configure logical partition 2 and logical partition 3 to a different shared processor pool. All three logical partitions compete for the same unused physical processor capacity in the server, even though they belong to different shared processor pools.  Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Processors A processor is a device that processes programmed instructions. The more processors that you assign to a logical partition, the greater the number of concurrent operations that the logical partition can run at any given time. You can set a logical partition to use either processors that are dedicated to the logical partition or processors that are shared with other logical partitions. If a logical partition uses dedicated processors, then you must assign processors (in increments of whole numbers) to the logical partition. A logical partition that uses dedicated processors cannot use any processing capacity beyond the processors that are assigned to the logical partition.  By default, all physical processors that are not dedicated to specific logical partitions are grouped together in a shared processor pool. You can assign a specific amount of the processing capacity in this shared processor pool to each logical partition that uses shared processors. Some models allow you to use the  to configure multiple shared processor pools. These models have a default shared processor pool that contains all the processor resources that do not belong to logical partitions that use dedicated processors or logical partitions that use other shared processor pools. The other shared processor pools on these models can be configured with a maximum processing unit value and a reserved processing unit value. The maximum processing unit value limits the total number of processors that can be used by the logical partitions in the shared processor pool. The reserved processing unit value is the number of processing units that are reserved for the use of uncapped logical partitions within the shared processor pool. You can set a logical partition that uses shared processors to use as little as 0.10 processing units, which is approximately a 10th of the processing capacity of a single processor.  You can specify the number of processing units to be used by a shared processor logical partition down to the 100th of a processing unit. Also, you can set a shared processor logical partition so that, if the logical partition requires more processing capacity than its assigned number of processing units, the logical partition can use processor resources that are not assigned to any logical partition or processor resources that are assigned to another logical partition but that are not being used by the other logical partition. (Some server models might require you to enter an activation code before you can create logical partitions that use shared processors.) You can assign up to the entire processing capacity on the managed system to a single logical partition, if the operating system and server model supports doing so. You can configure your managed system so that it does not comply with the software license agreement for your managed system, but you will receive out-of-compliance messages if you operate the managed system in such a configuration.  Automatic redistribution of work when a processor failsIf the server firmware detects that a processor is about to fail, or if a processor fails when the processor is not in use, then the server firmware creates a serviceable event. The server firmware can also unconfigure the failing processor automatically, depending upon the type of failure and the unconfiguration policies that you set up using the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI). You can also unconfigure a failing processor manually using the ASMI. When the server firmware unconfigures a failing processor, and there are no unassigned or unlicensed processors available on the managed system, the processor unconfiguration can cause the logical partition to which the processor is assigned to shut down. A logical partition can take processors only from logical partitions with lower partition-availability priorities. If all of the logical partitions on your managed system have the same partition-availability priority, then a logical partition can replace a failed processor only if the managed system has unlicensed or unassigned processors.   By default, the partition-availability priority of  logical partitions with virtual SCSI adapters is set to 191. The partition availablity priority of all other logical partitions is set to 127 by default.    Do not set the priority of  logical partitions to be lower than the priority of the logical partitions that use the resources on the  logical partition.    If the managed system shuts down a logical partition because of its partition availability priority, all logical partitions that use the resources on that logical partition are also shut down.  If a processor fails when the processor is in use, then the entire managed system shuts down. When a processor failure causes the entire managed system to shut down, the system unconfigures the processor and restarts. The managed system attempts to start the logical partitions that were running at the time of the processor failure with their minimum processor values, in partition-availability priority order, with the logical partition with the highest partition-availability priority being started first. If the managed system does not have enough processor resources to start all of the logical partitions with their minimum processor values, then the managed system starts as many logical partitions as it can with their minimum processor values. If there are any processor resources remaining after the managed system has started the logical partitions, then the managed system distributes any remaining processor resources to the running logical partitions in proportion to their desired processor values.  Dedicated processors are whole processors that are assigned to a single logical partition.  Shared processors are physical processors whose processing capacity is shared among multiple logical partitions. The ability to divide physical processors and share them among multiple logical partitions is known as the  technology. A virtual processor is a representation of a physical processor core to the operating system of a logical partition that uses shared processors.  The minimum number of processing units of a logical partition depends on the firmware level and the version of the operating system that is running on the logical partition. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:         
 Dedicated processors Dedicated processors are whole processors that are assigned to a single logical partition.  If you choose to assign dedicated processors to a logical partition, you must assign at least one processor to that logical partition. Likewise, if you choose to remove processor resources from a dedicated logical partition, you must remove at least one processor from the logical partition. On systems that are managed by a  (), dedicated processors are assigned to logical partitions using partition profiles. By default, a powered-off logical partition using dedicated processors has its processors available to uncapped logical partitions that use shared processors.  If the uncapped logical partition needs additional processor resources, the uncapped logical partition can use the idle processors that belong to the powered-off dedicated logical partition, if the total number of processors used by the uncapped logical partition does not exceed the virtual processors assigned to the uncapped logical partition, and if the use of these idle processors does not cause the shared processor pool to exceed its maximum processing units. When you power on the dedicated logical partition while the uncapped logical partition is using the processors, the activated logical partition regains all of its processing resources. If you use the , you can prevent dedicated processors from being used in the shared processor pool by disabling this function in the partition properties panels. You can also set the properties of a logical partition using dedicated processors so that unused processing cycles on those dedicated processors can be made available to uncapped logical partitions while the dedicated processor logical partition is running. You can change the processor sharing mode of the dedicated processor logical partition at any time, without having to shut down and restart the logical partition.  Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Partition profile A partition profile is a record on the  () that specifies a possible configuration for a logical partition. When you activate a logical partition using a partition profile, the managed system attempts to start the logical partition using the configuration information in the partition profile.  A partition profile specifies the desired system resources for the logical partition and the minimum and maximum amounts of system resources that the logical partition can have. The system resources specified within a partition profile includes processors, memory, and I/O resources. The partition profile can also specify certain operating settings for the logical partition. For example, you can set a partition profile so that, when the partition profile is activated, the logical partition is set to start automatically the next time that you power on the managed system. Each logical partition on a managed system that is managed by an  has at least one partition profile. If desired, you can create additional partition profiles with different resource specifications for your logical partition. If you create multiple partition profiles, you can designate any partition profile on the logical partition to be the default partition profile. The  activates the default profile if you do not select a specific partition profile to be activated. Only one partition profile can be active at one time. To activate another partition profile for a logical partition, you must shut down the logical partition before you activate the other partition profile.  A partition profile is identified by the logical partition ID and partition profile name. Logical partition IDs are whole numbers used to identify each logical partition that you create on a managed system, and partition profile names identify the partition profiles that you create for each logical partition. Each partition profile on a logical partition must have a unique partition profile name, but you can use a partition profile name for different logical partitions on a single managed system. For example, logical partition 1 cannot have more than one partition profile with a partition profile name of normal, but you can create a normal partition profile for each logical partition on the managed system. When you create a partition profile, the  shows you all of the resources available on your system.  The  does not verify if another partition profile is currently using a portion of these resources.  Therefore, it is possible for you to over commit resources. When you activate a logical partition using a partition profile, the system attempts to start the logical partition using the resources that are specified in the partition profile. If the minimum resources specified in the partition profile are not available on the managed system, the logical partition cannot be started using the partition profile.   For example, you have four processors on your managed system.  Logical partition 1 with partition profile A has three processors, and logical partition 2 with partition profile B has two processors.  If you attempt to activate both of these partition profiles at the same time, logical partition 2 with partition profile B fails to activate because you have over committed processor resources. When you shut down a logical partition and reactivate the logical partition using a partition profile, the partition profile overlays the resource specifications of the logical partition with the resource specifications in the partition profile. Any resource changes that you made to the logical partition using dynamic partitioning are lost when you reactivate the logical partition using a partition profile. This is desirable when you want to undo dynamic partitioning changes to the logical partition. However, this is not desirable if you want to reactivate the logical partition using the resource specifications that the logical partition had when you shut down the managed system. It is therefore best to keep your partition profiles up to date with the latest resource specifications. You can save the current configuration of the logical partition as a partition profile. This allows you to avoid having to change partition profiles manually. If you shut down a logical partition whose partition profiles are not up to date, and the logical partition is set to start automatically when the managed system starts, you can preserve the resource specifications on that logical partition by restarting the entire managed system using the partition autostart power-on mode. When the logical partitions start automatically, the logical partitions have the resource specifications that the logical partitions had when you shut down the managed system. You must activate a logical partition by activating a partition profile at least once. After that, you can activate the logical partition based on its current configuration data that is saved in the hypervisor. Logical partitions start faster when activated based on their current configuration data than when activated with a partition profile. When you create a partition profile for a logical partition, you set up the desired, minimum, and maximum amounts of processor resources that you want for the logical partition.  When you create a partition profile for a logical partition, you set up the desired, minimum, and maximum amounts of memory resources that you want for the logical partition.  I/O devices are assigned to partition profiles on a slot-by-slot basis. Most I/O devices can be assigned to a partition profile on the  as required or as desired. You can create partition profiles on your  that specify all of the resources on the managed system. If you activate a logical partition using such a partition profile, then the managed system assigns all of its resources to the logical partition. Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Processor resource assignment in partition profiles When you create a partition profile for a logical partition, you set up the desired, minimum, and maximum amounts of processor resources that you want for the logical partition.  The desired value is the resource amount that the logical partition gets if you do not over commit the resource on the managed system. If the desired amount of resources is available when you activate the partition profile, then the logical partition starts with the desired amount of resources. However, if the desired amount of resources is not available when you activate the partition profile, then the resources on your managed system are over committed. If the amount of resources that are available on the managed system is equal to or greater than the minimum amount of resources in the partition profile, then the logical partition starts with the available amount of resources. If the minimum amount of resources is not met, then the logical partition does not start. If the managed system allows the configuration of multiple shared processor pools, then you can limit the number of processors that are used by a specific group of logical partitions by configuring a shared processor pool for those logical partitions and reassigning those logical partitions to that shared processor pool.  If you create a partition profile that is set to use shared processors, the  calculates a minimum, maximum, and desired number of virtual processors for the partition profile. The calculation of virtual processors is based upon the minimum, maximum, and desired number of processing units that you specify for the partition profile. By default, the virtual processor settings are calculated as follows:The default minimum number of virtual processors is the minimum number of processing units (rounded up to the next whole number). For example, if the minimum number of processing units is 0.8, the default minimum number of virtual processors is 1.  The default desired number of virtual processors is the desired number of processing units (rounded up to the next whole number). For example, if the desired number of processing units is 2.8, the default desired number of virtual processors is 3.  The default maximum number of virtual processors is the maximum number of processing units rounded up to the next whole number and multiplied by two. For example, if the maximum number of processing units is 3.2, the default maximum number of virtual processors is 8 (four times 2).  When you activate the logical partition using the partition profile on the , the logical partition is assigned the desired number of virtual processors. You can then use dynamic partitioning to change the number of virtual processors to any number between the minimum and maximum values, so long as the number of virtual processors is greater than the number of processing units that are assigned to the logical partition. Before changing the default settings, performance modeling should be performed. For example, you create a partition profile on the  with the following processor unit settings. Minimum processing units 1.25  Desired processing units 3.80  Maximum processing units 5.00  The default virtual processor settings for this partition profile on the  are as follows. Minimum virtual processors 2  Desired virtual processors 4  Maximum virtual processors 10  When you activate the logical partition using this partition profile on the , the operating system sees four processors, because the logical partition is activated with the desired value of four virtual processors. Each of these virtual processors has 0.95 processing units supporting the work assigned to the processor. After the logical partition is activated, you can use dynamic partitioning to change the number of virtual processors on the logical partition to any between number 2 - 10, so long as the number of virtual processors is greater than the number of processing units that are assigned to the logical partition. If you increase the number of virtual processors, bear in mind that you will less processing power supporting the work assigned to each processor. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Memory resource assignment in partition profiles When you create a partition profile for a logical partition, you set up the desired, minimum, and maximum amounts of memory resources that you want for the logical partition.  When you create a partition profile , the desired, minimum, and maximum amounts of memory that you specify refer to physical memory in the system. If the desired amount of physical memory is available on the managed system when you activate the partition profile, the logical partition starts with the desired amount of physical memory. However, if the desired amount of physical memory is not available when you activate the partition profile, the physical memory on your managed system is over committed. In that case, if the amount of physical memory that is available on the managed system is equal to or greater than the minimum amount of physical memory in the partition profile, the logical partition starts with the available amount of physical memory. If the minimum amount of physical memory is not available, then the logical partition does not start. When you create a partition profile that is set to use shared memory, the desired, minimum, and maximum amounts of memory that you specify refer to logical memory. When you activate the partition profile, the logical partition starts with the desired amount of logical memory. You can dynamically add and remove logical memory to and from a running logical partition within the minimum and maximum values set in the partition profile. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Memory Processors use memory to temporarily hold information. Memory requirements for logical partitions depend on the logical partition configuration, I/O resources assigned, and applications used. Memory can be assigned in increments of 16 MB, 32 MB, 64 MB, 128 MB, and 256 MB. The default memory block size varies according to the amount of configurable memory in the system.   Amount of configurable memory Default memory block size Less than 4 GB 16 MB Greater than 4 GB up to 8 GB 32 MB Greater than 8 GB up to 16 GB 64 MB Greater than 16 GB up to 32 GB 128 MB Greater than 32 GB 256 MB There are limits on how large a logical partition can grow based on the amount of memory initially allocated to it. Memory is added and removed to and from logical partitions in units of logical memory blocks. For logical partitions that are initially sized less than 256 MB, the maximum size to which a logical partition can grow is 16 times its initial size (up to the assigned maximum memory of the logical partition). For logical partitions that are initially sized 256 MB or larger, the maximum size to which the logical partition can grow is 64 times its initial size (up to the assigned maximum memory of the logical partition). The smallest increment for adding or removing memory to or from a logical partition is 16 MB. The memory block size can be changed by using the , or the Logical Memory Block Size option in the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI). The machine default value should only be changed under direction from your service provider. To change the memory block size, you must be a user with administrator authority, and you must shut down and restart the managed system for the change to take effect. If the minimum memory amount in any partition profile on the managed system is less than the new memory block size, you must also change the minimum memory amount in the partition profile. Each logical partition has a hardware page table (HPT).  The HPT ratio is the ratio of the HPT size to the maximum memory value for the logical partition. The HPT is allocated in the server firmware memory overhead for the logical partition, and the size of the HPT can affect the performance of the logical partition. The size of the HPT is determined by the following factors: The HPT ratio of 1/64 is the default value for all logical partitions. You can override the default value by using the  command-line interface to change the value in the partition profile. The maximum memory values that you establish for the logical partition  On systems that are managed by a , memory is assigned to logical partitions using partition profiles. On systems that are managed by the , memory is assigned to logical partitions using the partition properties.  memory is physical system memory that you assign to a logical partition , and is reserved for use by the partition until you remove the memory from the partition or delete the partition. You can configure your system so that multiple logical partitions share a pool of physical memory. A shared memory environment includes the shared memory pool, logical partitions that use the shared memory in the shared memory pool, logical memory, I/O entitled memory, at least one  logical partition, and paging space devices. When you enable  for an  logical partition, you increase the memory capacity of the logical partition without assigning more memory to it. The operating system compresses a portion of the memory that the logical partition uses. This compression creates space for more data and expanding the memory capacity of the logical partition. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
  memory  memory is physical system memory that you assign to a logical partition , and is reserved for use by the partition until you remove the memory from the partition or delete the partition. Depending on the overall memory in your system and the maximum memory values you choose for each logical partition, the server firmware must have enough memory to perform logical partition tasks. The amount of memory required by the server firmware varies according to several factors.  The following factors influence server firmware memory requirements: Number of partitions Partition environments of the partitions Number of physical and virtual I/O devices used by the partitions Maximum memory values given to the partitions  Firmware level updates can also change the server firmware memory requirements. Larger memory block sizes can exaggerate the memory requirement change. When selecting the maximum memory values for each  partition, consider the following points: Maximum values affect the hardware page table (HPT) size for each partition The logical memory map size for each partition If the server firmware detects that a memory module has failed or is about to fail, the server firmware creates a serviceable event. The server firmware can also unconfigure the failing memory module automatically, depending on the type of failure and the deconfiguration policies that you set up using the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI). You can also unconfigure a failing memory module manually using the ASMI. If a memory module failure causes the entire managed system to shut down, the managed system restarts automatically if the managed system is in normal IPL mode. When the managed system restarts itself, or when you restart the managed system manually, the managed system attempts to start the partitions that were running at the time of the memory module failure with their minimum memory values. If the managed system does not have enough memory to start all of the partitions with their minimum memory values, the managed system starts as many partitions as it can with their minimum memory values. If any memory is left over after the managed system has started as many partitions as it can, the managed system distributes the remaining memory resources to the running partitions in proportion to their wanted memory values.  Specify the number of 16 GB pages to allocate to an  huge-page memory pool. Parent topic:          
 Setting huge-page memory values for  partitions Specify the number of 16 GB pages to allocate to an  huge-page memory pool. On managed systems that support huge-page memory, you can use the  () to set the value for the huge-page memory pool. You can also specify values for the number of huge pages to allocate to logical partitions. Using huge pages can improve performance in specific environments that require a high degree of parallelism, such as in DB2® database. You can specify huge-page memory that can be used for the shared-memory buffer pools in DB2. For logically partitioned systems, you can specify the minimum, wanted, and maximum number of huge pages to assign to a logical partition when you create the logical partition or partition profile.  To set the huge-page memory values, the system must be in the powered-off state. The new value takes effect when you restart the system.  Calculate the value for the number of pages to allocate to an  huge-page memory pool. View and set values for  huge-page memory allocation. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Calculating huge-page memory requirements for  partitions Calculate the value for the number of pages to allocate to an  huge-page memory pool. To use huge-page memory, you must ensure that your system has adequate memory resources to dedicate to the huge-page memory pool. The huge-page memory pool is a region of system memory that is mapped as 16 GB page segments and is managed separately from the base memory of the system. Before you can specify the value for huge-page memory, you must determine which applications you are running and what the huge-page requirements are for your applications. Determining huge-page memory requirements for your application The huge-page memory pool can be used to enhance performance for DB2® in  operating systems. To determine this value, calculate the amount of memory required for the shared buffer pool to support your DB2 applications. Refer to the DB2 recommendations for buffer pool memory for your particular application.  The huge page memory allocation cannot be changed dynamically. When you change the number of huge pages on the server requires that you reboot the server. Changing the number of assigned huge pages for a logical partition requires that you restart the logical partition. Considerations for calculating the huge-page values The amount of huge-page memory that you can allocate is dependent on the following factors:Total amount of licensed memory for your server Amount of available memory after configured memory resources are accounted for Number of physical IO connections to the server (each IO connection requires memory for the IO tables, which can be distributed among the physical memory regions and reduces the memory available for huge pages) Base memory configuration for logical partitions (huge pages are not calculated as part of the configured-partition memory allocation) The requirements that define a huge page, that is each huge page requires 16 GB of contiguous real memory and must start on a 16 GB memory boundary Huge pages cannot span processing units. Each processing unit requires 32 GB to ensure at least one 16 GB huge page when all of the other considerations previously listed are taken into account.  The server firmware reduces the huge-page pool size to satisfy some of these dependencies.  When this occurs, error log entries are generated to indicate that the huge-page pool size was reduced.  The error log reference code is B700 5300.  The reference code details  indicates hexadecimal values that indicate why the huge-page pool size could not be satisfied.  The following example shows the possible entries and how to interpret the additional words in these entries:word 3 = 0x0000000100000106: This means that the huge-page pool was reduced to satisfy the system hardware configuration word 4 = number of user-configured huge pages word 5 = number of huge pages that could be provided word 3 = 0x0000000100000105: This means that the huge-page pool was reduced to satisfy the memory configuration of logical partitionsword 4 = number of huge pages before logical partitions were created word 5 = firmware calculated number of huge pages after satisfying logical partition memory requirements word 6 = number of huge pages in the pool Calculating huge-page memory values To calculate the server memory requirements to support huge pages, use the following steps: Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Viewing and setting huge-page memory values for  partitions View and set values for  huge-page memory allocation. On systems that support huge-page (16 GB) memory allocation, you can set the current value in the huge-page memory table. On a new system, you must set this value initially to establish the huge-page memory pool. You must set the value when the managed system is in the powered-off state. If this value is already set, you must change the value to adjust for performance needs based on the applications that you are running and your logical partition configurations. You can also change the values set for the number of huge pages allocated to your logical partitions.  Use this task to set or adjust the number of 16 GB pages for the huge-page allocation according to your needs.  To change the values for logical partitions, you must shut down the logical partition. The new value takes effect when you restart the logical partition. To set huge-page memory values for a logical partition, do the following: Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Shared memory You can configure your system so that multiple logical partitions share a pool of physical memory. A shared memory environment includes the shared memory pool, logical partitions that use the shared memory in the shared memory pool, logical memory, I/O entitled memory, at least one  logical partition, and paging space devices. Shared memory is physical memory that is assigned to the shared memory pool and shared among multiple logical partitions. The shared memory pool is a defined collection of physical memory blocks that are managed as a single memory pool by the hypervisor. Logical partitions that you configure to use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions) share the memory in the pool with other shared memory partitions. When the operating system that runs in a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) needs to access data, the data must reside in the shared memory pool. Systems with overcommitted memory configurations require the hypervisor and at least one  (VIOS) logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partition) to move data between the shared memory pool and the paging space devices as needed. Logical memory is the address space, assigned to a logical partition, that the operating system perceives as its main storage. For a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition), a subset of the logical memory is backed up by physical main storage and the remaining logical memory is kept in auxiliary storage. I/O entitled memory is the maximum amount of physical memory (from the shared memory pool) that is guaranteed to be available to a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) for its I/O devices at any given time. A  (VIOS) logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) provides access to the paging space devices for the logical partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions). You can learn about how the  () and  allocate and manipulate paging space devices on systems that use shared memory. The hypervisor uses the memory weight of each logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions) to help determine which logical partitions receive more physical memory from the shared memory pool. To help optimize performance and memory use, the operating systems that run in shared memory partitions provide the hypervisor with information about how the operating system uses its memory to help the hypervisor determine which pages to store in the shared memory pool and which pages to store in the paging space devices. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:         
 Overview of shared memory Shared memory is physical memory that is assigned to the shared memory pool and shared among multiple logical partitions. The shared memory pool is a defined collection of physical memory blocks that are managed as a single memory pool by the hypervisor. Logical partitions that you configure to use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions) share the memory in the pool with other shared memory partitions.  For example, you create a shared memory pool with 16 GB of physical memory. You then create three logical partitions, configure them to use shared memory, and activate the shared memory partitions. Each shared memory partition can use the 16 GB that are in the shared memory pool.  The hypervisor determines the amount of memory allocated from the shared memory pool to each shared memory partition based on the workload and memory configuration of each shared memory partition. When allocating the physical memory to the shared memory partitions, the hypervisor ensures that each shared memory partition can access only the memory allocated to the shared memory partition at any given time. A shared memory partition cannot access the physical memory allocated to another shared memory partition. The amount of memory that you assign to the shared memory partitions can be greater than the amount of memory in the shared memory pool. For example, you can assign 12 GB to shared memory partition 1, 8 GB to shared memory partition 2, and 4 GB to shared memory partition 3. Together, the shared memory partitions use 24 GB of memory, but the shared memory pool has only 16 GB of memory. In this situation, the memory configuration is considered overcommitted. Overcommitted memory configurations are possible because the hypervisor virtualizes and manages all of the memory for the shared memory partitions in the shared memory pool as follows: When shared memory partitions are not actively using their memory pages, the hypervisor allocates those unused memory pages to shared memory partitions that currently need them.  The hypervisor does not need to store any data in auxiliary storage. When a shared memory partition requires more memory than the hypervisor can provide to it by allocating unused portions of the shared memory pool, the hypervisor stores some of the memory that belongs to a shared memory partition in the shared memory pool and stores the remainder of the memory that belongs to the shared memory partition in auxiliary storage.  When the operating system attempts to access the data, the hypervisor might need to retrieve the data from auxiliary storage before the operating system can access it.  Because the memory that you assign to a shared memory partition might not always reside in the shared memory pool, the memory that you assign to a shared memory partition is logical memory. Logical memory is the address space, assigned to a logical partition, that the operating system perceives as its main storage. For a shared memory partition, a subset of the logical memory is backed up by physical main storage (or physical memory from the shared memory pool) and the remaining logical memory is kept in auxiliary storage. A  logical partition provides access to the auxiliary storage, or paging space devices, required for shared memory partitions in an overcommitted memory configuration. A paging space device is a physical or logical device that is used by a  to provide the paging space for a shared memory partition. The paging space is an area of nonvolatile storage used to hold portions of a shared memory partition's logical memory that do not reside in the shared memory pool. When the operating system that runs in a shared memory partition attempts to access data, and the data is located in the paging space device that is assigned to the shared memory partition, the hypervisor sends a request to a  to retrieve the data and write it to the shared memory pool so that the operating system can access it.  On systems that are managed by a  (), you can assign up to two  (VIOS) logical partitions to the shared memory pool at a time (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partitions). When you assign two paging VIOS partitions to the shared memory pool, you can configure the paging space devices such that both paging VIOS partitions have access to the same paging space devices. When one paging VIOS partition becomes unavailable, the hypervisor sends a request to the other paging VIOS partition to retrieve the data on the paging space device.  You cannot configure paging VIOS partitions to use shared memory. Paging VIOS partitions do not use the memory in the shared memory pool. You assign paging VIOS partitions to the shared memory pool so that they can provide access to the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool. Driven by workload demands from the shared memory partitions, the hypervisor manages overcommitted memory configurations by continually performing the following tasks: Allocating portions of physical memory from the shared memory pool to the shared memory partitions as needed Requesting a paging VIOS partition to read and write data between the shared memory pool and the paging space devices as needed The ability to share memory among multiple logical partitions is known as the  technology. The  technology is available with the  for which you must obtain and enter a  activation code.  Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:         
 Example: A shared memory configuration that is logically overcommitted The following figure shows a server with shared memory configuration that is logically overcommitted. The figure shows a shared memory pool of 16.25 GB that is shared among three shared memory partitions. The hypervisor uses a small portion (0.25 GB) of the shared memory pool to manage the shared memory resources. The figure also shows one paging VIOS partition that owns all of the physical storage in the system. The physical storage contains a paging space device for each shared memory partition. The paging VIOS partition does not use the memory in the shared memory pool, but rather receives dedicated memory of 1 GB. Of the remaining system memory, 1 GB is reserved for the hypervisor so that it can manage other system resources, and 13.75 GB is free memory that is available for system growth. For example, you can dynamically add more memory to the shared memory pool or you can create additional dedicated memory partitions. Shared memory partition 1 is assigned 12 GB of logical memory, Shared memory partition 2 is assigned 8 GB of logical memory, and Shared memory partition 3 is assigned 4 GB of logical memory. Together, the shared memory partitions are assigned 24 GB of logical memory, which is more than the 16.25 GB allocated to the shared memory pool. Therefore, the memory configuration is overcommitted. Shared memory partition 1 currently uses 8 GB of physical memory, Shared memory partition 2 currently uses 4 GB of physical memory, and Shared memory partition 3 currently uses 4 GB of physical memory. Together, the shared memory partitions currently use 16 GB of physical memory, which is equal to the amount of physical memory available to them in the shared memory pool. Therefore, the memory configuration is logically overcommitted. In other words, the shared memory pool contains enough physical memory for the hypervisor to allocate unused memory pages to shared memory partitions that need them. All of the memory currently used by the shared memory partitions resides in the shared memory pool. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Performance considerations for overcommitted shared memory partitions Learn about how the degree to which the memory configuration of a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) is overcommitted affects the performance of the shared memory partition. In general, the less overcommitted the memory configuration of a shared memory partition, the better its performance. A shared memory configuration is considered overcommitted when the sum of the logical memory that is assigned to all of the shared memory partitions is greater than the amount of physical memory in the shared memory pool.      The figure shows a shared memory partition that is currently allocated 0.8 GB of physical memory and assigned 2.5 GB of logical memory. If the workload that runs in the shared memory partition currently uses 0.8 GB of memory and requires an additional 1.5 GB of memory, and the shared memory pool is physically overcommitted, the hypervisor stores 1.5 GB of the shared memory partition's memory in its paging space device. When the shared memory partition needs to access data on the paging space device, the hypervisor directs a paging VIOS partition to read the data from the paging space device and write the data to the shared memory pool. The more memory that the hypervisor must store on the paging space device, the more often the hypervisor and paging VIOS partition need to read and write data between the paging space device and the shared memory pool. Compared to directly accessing data that is stored in the shared memory pool, it takes more time to access data that is stored in the paging space device. Thus, in general, the less overcommitted the memory configuration of a shared memory partition, the better its performance. The operating systems that run in the shared memory partitions help improve the performance of the shared memory partitions with overcommitted memory configurations by providing the hypervisor with information about how the operating system uses the physical memory allocated to it. Using this information, the hypervisor can store data that the operating system accesses the least often in the paging space device and store the data that the operating system accesses the most often in the shared memory pool. This reduces the frequency that the hypervisor needs to access the paging space device and increases the performance of the shared memory partition. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related reference:         
 Performance considerations for shared memory partitions You can learn about performance factors (such as shared memory overcommitment) that influence the performance of a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition). You can also use shared memory statistics to help you determine how to adjust the configuration of a shared memory partition to improve its performance. Learn about how the degree to which the memory configuration of a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) is overcommitted affects the performance of the shared memory partition. In general, the less overcommitted the memory configuration of a shared memory partition, the better its performance. In addition to overcommitment considerations, you need to consider other factors that can affect the performance of a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition). These factors include the workload running in the shared memory partition, the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition, whether the operating system or applications that run in the shared memory partition use memory affinity. The  (), , and  environments provide statistics about the shared memory configuration. Parent topic:          
 Factors that influence the performance of shared memory partitions In addition to overcommitment considerations, you need to consider other factors that can affect the performance of a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition). These factors include the workload running in the shared memory partition, the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition, whether the operating system or applications that run in the shared memory partition use memory affinity. The following table describes the types of workloads that are appropriate to run in shared memory configurations that are logically and physically overcommitted. It also describes the types of workloads that are not appropriate to run in a shared memory configuration. Workloads for logically overcommitted configurations Workloads for physically overcommitted configurations Workloads for dedicated memory configurations Workloads that peak at opposite and varying times. Workloads with memory residency requirements that have a low average. Workloads that do not have a sustained load. Logical partitions that serve as failover and backup logical partitions when configured on the same server as their primary counterparts. Test and development environments. Workloads that run the  operating system and use the file cache. Print servers, file servers, network applications, and other workloads that are less sensitive to I/O latency. Workloads that are inactive most of the time. Workloads with high quality of service criteria. Workloads that consistently consume memory resources due to sustained peak load. High performance computing (HPC) workloads. In addition to the degree to which the memory configuration of a shared memory partition is overcommitted, the following factors can influence the performance of a shared memory partition: The workload that runs in a shared memory partition, the number of virtual adapters that are assigned to the shared memory partition, and the I/O entitled memory set for the shared memory partition all directly affect the performance of I/O devices. These factors can cause I/O devices to operate at their minimum memory requirements rather than their optimal memory requirements. This can cause delays in I/O operations. The amount of I/O entitled memory required for optimal performance depends on the workload and number of adapters configured.  The operating systems that run in shared memory partitions cannot use memory affinity. Some applications rely on memory affinity to improve their performance.  The shared memory partition might be suspended if it attempts to access data on its paging space device when the following situations occur simultaneously:The paging VIOS partition becomes unavailable. For example, you shut down the paging VIOS partition or the paging VIOS partition fails. The shared memory partition is not configured to use redundant paging VIOS partitions to access its paging space device. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related reference:         
 Paging VIOS partition A  (VIOS) logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) provides access to the paging space devices for the logical partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions).  When the operating system that runs in a shared memory partition attempts to access data, and the data is located in the paging space device that is assigned to the shared memory partition, the hypervisor sends a request to a paging VIOS partition to retrieve the data and write it to the shared memory pool so that the operating system can access it. A paging VIOS partition is not a shared memory partition and does not use the memory in the shared memory pool. A paging VIOS partition provides access to the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions. On systems that are managed by the , the management partition is the paging VIOS partition for the shared memory partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool. When you create the shared memory pool, you assign a paging storage pool to the shared memory pool. The paging storage pool provides the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool. On systems that are managed by a  (), you can assign one or two paging VIOS partitions to the shared memory pool. When you assign a single paging VIOS partition to the shared memory pool, the paging VIOS partition provides access to all of the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions. The paging space devices can be located in physical storage in the server or on a storage area network (SAN). When you assign two paging VIOS partitions to the shared memory pool, you can configure each paging VIOS partition to access paging space devices in one of the following ways:You can configure each paging VIOS partition to access independent paging space devices. Paging space devices that are accessed by only one paging VIOS partition, or independent paging space devices, can be located in physical storage in the server or on a SAN. You can configure both paging VIOS partitions to access the same, or common, paging space devices. In this configuration, the paging VIOS partitions provide redundant access to paging space devices. When one paging VIOS partition becomes unavailable, the hypervisor sends a request to the other paging VIOS partition to retrieve the data on the paging space device. Common paging space devices must be located on a SAN to enable symmetrical access from both paging VIOS partitions. You can configure each paging VIOS partition to access some independent paging space devices and some common paging space devices. If you configure the shared memory pool with two paging VIOS partitions, you can configure a shared memory partition to use either a single paging VIOS partition or redundant paging VIOS partitions. When you configure a shared memory partition to use redundant paging VIOS partitions, you assign a primary paging VIOS partition and a secondary paging VIOS partition to the shared memory partition. The hypervisor uses the primary paging VIOS partition to access the shared memory partition's paging space device. At this point, the primary paging VIOS partition is the current paging VIOS partition for the shared memory partition. The current paging VIOS partition is the paging VIOS partition that the hypervisor uses at any point in time to access data in the paging space device that is assigned to the shared memory partition. If the primary paging VIOS partition becomes unavailable, the hypervisor uses the secondary paging VIOS partition to access the shared memory partition's paging space device. At this point, the secondary paging VIOS partition becomes the current paging VIOS partition for the shared memory partition and continues as the current paging VIOS partition even after the primary paging VIOS partition becomes available again.  You do not need to assign the same primary and secondary paging VIOS partitions to all of the shared memory partitions. For example, you assign paging VIOS partition A and paging VIOS partition B to the shared memory pool. For one shared memory partition, you can assign paging VIOS partition A as the primary paging VIOS partition and paging VIOS partition B as the secondary paging VIOS partition. For a different shared memory partition, you can assign paging VIOS partition B as the primary paging VIOS partition and paging VIOS partition A as the secondary paging VIOS partition.  The following figure shows an example of a system with four shared memory partitions, two paging VIOS partitions, and four paging space devices. The example shows the configuration options for paging VIOS partitions and paging space devices as described in the following table. Configuration option Example The paging space device that is assigned to a shared memory partition is located in physical storage in the server and is accessed by a single paging VIOS partition. Paging space device 4 provides the paging space for Shared memory partition 4. Shared memory partition 4 is assigned to use Paging VIOS partition 2 to access Paging space device 4. Paging space device 4 is located in physical storage in the server and is assigned to Paging VIOS partition 2. Paging VIOS partition 2 is the only paging VIOS partition that can access Paging space device 4 (This relationship is shown by the blue line that connects Paging VIOS partition 2 to Paging space device 4.). The paging space device that is assigned to a shared memory partition is located on a SAN and is accessed by a single paging VIOS partition. Paging space device 1 provides the paging space for Shared memory partition 1. Shared memory partition 1 is assigned to use Paging VIOS partition 1 to access Paging space device 1. Paging space device 1 is connected to the SAN. Paging VIOS partition 1 is also connected to the SAN and is the only paging VIOS partition that can access Paging space device 1 (This relationship is shown by the green line that connects Paging VIOS partition 1 to Paging space device 1.). The paging space device that is assigned to a shared memory partition is located on a SAN and is accessed redundantly by two paging VIOS partitions. Paging space device 2 provides the paging space for Shared memory partition 2. Paging space device 2 is connected to the SAN. Paging VIOS partition 1 and Paging VIOS partition 2 are also connected to the SAN and can both access Paging space device 2. (These relationships are shown by the green line that connects Paging VIOS partition 1 to Paging space device 2 and the blue line that connects Paging VIOS partition 2 to Paging space device 2.) Shared memory partition 2 is assigned to use redundant paging VIOS partitions to access Paging space device 2. Paging VIOS partition 1 is configured as the primary paging VIOS partition and Paging VIOS partition 2 is configured as the secondary paging VIOS partition. Similarly, Paging space device 3 provides the paging space for Shared memory partition 3. Paging space device 3 is connected to the SAN. Paging VIOS partition 1 and Paging VIOS partition 2 are also connected to the SAN and can both access Paging space device 3. (These relationships are shown by the green line that connects Paging VIOS partition 1 to Paging space device 3 and the blue line that connects Paging VIOS partition 2 to Paging space device 3.) Shared memory partition 3 is assigned to use redundant paging VIOS partitions to access Paging space device 3. Paging VIOS partition 2 is configured as the primary paging VIOS partition and Paging VIOS partition 1 is configured as the secondary paging VIOS partition. Because Paging VIOS partition 1 and Paging VIOS partition 2 both have access to Paging space device 2 and Paging space device 3, Paging space device 2 and Paging space device 3 are common paging space devices that are accessed redundantly by Paging VIOS partition 1 and Paging VIOS partition 2. If Paging VIOS partition 1 becomes unavailable and Shared memory partition 2 needs to access data on its paging space device, the hypervisor sends a request to Paging VIOS partition 2 to retrieve the data on Paging space device 2. Similarly, if Paging VIOS partition 2 becomes unavailable and Shared memory partition 3 needs to access the data on its paging space device, the hypervisor sends a request to Paging VIOS partition 1 to retrieve the data on Paging space device 3. A paging VIOS partition accesses both independent and common paging space devices. Paging space device 1 and Paging space device 4 are independent paging space devices because only one paging VIOS partition accesses each. Paging VIOS partition 1 accesses Paging space device 1, and Paging VIOS partition 2 accesses Paging space device 4. Paging space device 2 and paging space device 3 are common paging space devices because both paging VIOS partitions access each. (These relationships are shown by the green and blue lines that connect the paging VIOS partitions to the paging space devices.)Paging VIOS partition 1 accesses the independent paging space device Paging space device 1, and also accesses the common paging space devices Paging space device 2 and Paging space device 3. Paging VIOS partition 2 accesses the independent paging space device Paging space device 4 and also accesses the common paging space devices Paging space device 2 and Paging space device 3.  When a single paging VIOS partition is assigned to the shared memory pool, you must shut down the shared memory partitions before you shut down the paging VIOS partition so that the shared memory partitions are not suspended when they attempt to access their paging space devices. When two paging VIOS partitions are assigned to the shared memory pool and the shared memory partitions are configured to use redundant paging VIOS partitions, you do not need to shut down the shared memory partitions to shut down a paging VIOS partition. When one paging VIOS partition is shut down, the shared memory partitions use the other paging VIOS partition to access their paging space devices. For example, you can shut down a paging VIOS partition and install VIOS updates without shutting down the shared memory partitions. You can configure multiple VIOS logical partitions to provide access to paging space devices. However, you can only assign up to two of those VIOS partitions to the shared memory pool at any given time. After you configure the shared memory partitions, you can later change the redundancy configuration of the paging VIOS partitions for a shared memory partition by modifying the partition profile of the shared memory partition and restarting the shared memory partition with the modified partition profile: You can change which paging VIOS partitions are assigned to a shared memory partition as the primary and secondary paging VIOS partitions.  You can change the number of paging VIOS partitions that are assigned to a shared memory partition. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related reference:         
 Paging space device You can learn about how the  () and  allocate and manipulate paging space devices on systems that use shared memory. A paging space device is a physical or logical device that is used by a  to provide the paging space for a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition). The paging space is an area of nonvolatile storage used to hold portions of the shared memory partition's memory that are not resident in the shared memory pool. You can learn about the paging storage pool on systems that are managed by the . Learn about the location requirements, size requirements for paging space devices on systems that are managed by a  (). Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Paging space devices on systems that are managed by the  You can learn about the paging storage pool on systems that are managed by the . When you create the shared memory pool, you assign a paging storage pool to the shared memory pool. The paging storage pool provides the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool.  When you activate the shared memory partition, the  allocates a paging space device from the paging storage pool to the shared memory partition that best fits the size requirements of the shared memory partition. For  and  shared memory partitions, the paging space device must be at least the size of the maximum logical memory size of the shared memory partition.  For  shared memory partitions, the paging space device must be at least the size of the maximum logical memory size of the shared memory partition plus 8 KB for every megabyte.  The  automatically creates a paging space device for the shared memory partition in one or more of the following situations: No paging space devices exist in the paging storage pool. No paging space devices that are in the paging storage pool meet the size requirements of the shared memory partition. All of the paging space devices in the paging storage pool are assigned to other shared memory partitions. The  allocates only one paging space device to a shared memory partition at a time. If you do not assign a paging storage pool to the shared memory pool, you need to assign a minimum of one paging space device to the shared memory pool for each shared memory partition. After you create the shared memory pool, you can add or remove paging space devices to or from the shared memory pool as needed.  Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related reference: Related information:         
 Preparing to configure shared memory Before you configure the shared memory pool and create logical partitions that use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions), you need to plan for the shared memory pool, the shared memory partitions, the paging space devices, and the  logical partitions (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partitions).  Before you configure the shared memory pool and create logical partitions that use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions), you need to determine the size of the shared memory pool, the number of shared memory partitions to assign to the shared memory pool, and the amount of memory to assign to each shared memory partition. Before you configure the shared memory pool and create logical partitions that use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions), you need to determine the size of the shared memory pool, the amount of memory to assign to each shared memory partition, the number of paging space devices to assign to the shared memory pool that you assign to the shared memory pool. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Preparing to configure shared memory on a system that is managed by the  Before you configure the shared memory pool and create logical partitions that use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions), you need to determine the size of the shared memory pool, the number of shared memory partitions to assign to the shared memory pool, and the amount of memory to assign to each shared memory partition. Before you start, verify that your system meets the requirements for configuring shared memory. For instructions, see . To prepare to configure the shared memory pool and shared memory partitions, complete the following steps:    You can apply the same general guidelines that you might use to assign the desired, minimum, and maximum dedicated memory to logical partitions that use dedicated memory. For example: Do not assign the maximum logical memory to a value that is higher than the amount of logical memory that you plan to dynamically add to the shared memory partition. Set the minimum logical memory to a value that is high enough for the shared memory partition to successfully activate.  For instructions, see .  The paging storage pool can contain paging space devices and virtual disks. However, you cannot use the same logical volume as both a paging space device and as a virtual disk at the same time. Consider reserving an entire storage pool for paging space devices. Optional:  If you do not assign paging space devices to the shared memory pool,  automatically creates them for you from the paging storage pool when you create the shared memory partitions. If you decide to manually create the paging space devices, consider the following requirements:You need to assign a minimum of one paging space device to the shared memory pool for each shared memory partition. For  shared memory partitions, the paging space device must be at least the size of the maximum logical memory size of the shared memory partition that you identified in step 1b.  For  shared memory partitions, the paging space device must be the size of the maximum logical memory size of the shared memory partition that you identified in step 1b multiplied by 129/128. For example, you plan to create an  shared memory partition with a maximum logical memory size of 16 GB. The paging space device must be at least 16.125 GB. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Configuration requirements for shared memory Review the requirements for the system,  (VIOS), logical partitions, and paging space devices so that you can successfully configure shared memory. System requirementsThe server must be a  processor-based server. The server firmware must be at release 3.4.2, or later. The  () must be at version 7 release 3.4.2, or later. The  must be at version 2.1.1, or later. The  technology must be activated. The  technology is available with the  for which you must obtain and enter a  activation code.  Paging VIOS partition requirementsVIOS partitions that provide access to the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partitions) cannot use shared memory. Paging VIOS partitions must use dedicated memory.  Paging VIOS partitions must be at version 2.1.1, or later. On IVM-managed systems, all logical partitions that use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions) must use virtual resources provided by the management partition. On -managed systems, consider configuring separate VIOS partitions as server partitions and paging VIOS partitions. For example, configure one VIOS partition to provide virtual resources to the shared memory partitions. Then, configure another VIOS partition as a paging VIOS partition. On -managed systems, you can configure multiple VIOS partitions to provide access to paging space devices. However, you can only assign up to two of those VIOS partitions to the shared memory pool at any given time. Requirements for shared memory partitionsShared memory partitions must use shared processors.  You can assign only virtual adapters to shared memory partitions. This means that you can dynamically add only virtual adapters to shared memory partitions. More specifically, the following table lists the virtual adapters that you can assign shared memory partitions.  and  shared memory partitions  shared memory partitions Virtual SCSI client adapters Virtual Ethernet adapters Virtual fibre channel client adapters Virtual serial adapters Virtual SCSI client adapters Virtual Ethernet adapters Virtual fibre channel client adapters Virtual serial server adapters  shared memory partitions Virtual SCSI client adapters Virtual Ethernet adapters Virtual fibre channel client adapters Virtual serial adapters You cannot assign s (HEA) or host connection adapters (HCA) to shared memory partitions. Shared memory partitions cannot use the barrier synchronization register. Shared memory partitions cannot use huge pages.  must be at version 6.1 Technology Level 3, or later, to run in a shared memory partition.  must be at 6.1 with PTF SI32798, to run in a shared memory partition. Virtual OptiConnect must not be enabled on  shared memory partitions.  must be at version 11, or later, to run in a shared memory partition.  Enterprise Server Version 6, or later, to run in a shared memory partition  Logical partitions that provide virtual resources to other logical partitions in a shared memory environment must be VIOS partitions.  Requirements for paging space devicesThe paging space devices for  shared memory partitions must be at least the size of the maximum logical memory of the shared memory partition. The paging space devices for  shared memory partitions must be at least the size of the maximum logical memory of the shared memory partition plus 8 KB for every megabyte. For example, if the maximum logical memory of the shared memory partition is 16 GB, its paging space device must be at least 16.125 GB.  Paging space devices can only be assigned to one shared memory pool at a time. You cannot assign the same paging space device to a shared memory pool on one system and to another shared memory pool on another system at the same time. Paging space devices that are accessed by a single paging VIOS partition must meet the following requirements:They can be physical or logical volumes. They can be located in physical storage on the server or on a storage area network (SAN). Paging space devices that are accessed redundantly by two paging VIOS partitions must meet the following requirements: They must be physical volumes. They must be located on a SAN. They must be configured with global IDs. They must be accessible to both paging VIOS partitions. The reserve attribute must be set to no reserve. (The VIOS automatically sets the reserve attribute to no reserve when you add the paging space device to the shared memory pool.) Physical volumes that are configured as paging space devices cannot belong to a volume group, such as the  volume group.  Logical volumes that are configured as paging space devices must be located in a volume group that is dedicated for paging space devices. Paging space devices must be available. You cannot use the physical volume or logical volume as a paging space device if it is already configured as a paging space device or virtual disk for another logical partition. Paging space devices cannot be used to boot a logical partition. After you assign a paging space device to the shared memory pool, you must manage the device by using one of the following tools: The Create/Modify Shared Memory Pool wizard on the .  The View/Modify Shared Memory Pool page on the .  Do not change or remove the device using other management tools. On logical partitions with the Suspend/Resume feature, paging space devices are used to save suspension data for logical partitions that are configured to use shared memory. The paging space device size must be a minimum of 110% of the maximum memory of the logical partition. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:         
 Paging space devices on systems that are managed by an  Learn about the location requirements, size requirements for paging space devices on systems that are managed by a  (). When you configure the shared memory pool, you assign paging space devices to the shared memory pool. Paging space devices can be located in physical storage in the server or on a storage area network (SAN) as follows: Paging space devices that are accessed by a single  (VIOS) logical partition (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) can be located in physical storage in the server or on a SAN. Paging space devices that are accessed redundantly by two paging VIOS partitions, or common paging space devices, must be located on a SAN. When you activate a shared memory partition, the  allocates a paging space device (that is assigned to the shared memory pool) to the shared memory partition. The  allocates only one paging space device to a shared memory partition at a time. When you shut down a shared memory partition, its paging space device becomes available to the  to allocate elsewhere. Thus, the fewest number of paging space devices that must be assigned to the shared memory pool is equal to the number of shared memory partitions that you plan to run simultaneously. After you create the shared memory pool, you can add or remove paging space devices to or from the shared memory pool as needed.  The  assigns paging space devices to shared memory partitions based on the size requirements for the shared memory partition and the redundancy preferences that you specify for partition activation. Size requirementsThe  allocates a paging space device to a shared memory partition that best fits the size requirements of the shared memory partition. For  and  shared memory partitions, the paging space device must be at least the size of the maximum logical memory size of the shared memory partition.  For  shared memory partitions, the paging space device must be at least the size of the maximum logical memory size of the shared memory partition plus 8 KB for every megabyte.  Shared memory partitions might have several partition profiles that specify different maximum logical memory sizes. To maintain flexibility, consider creating paging space devices that are large enough to be used by shared memory partitions with multiple partition profiles. When you activate a shared memory partition with a different partition profile, the shared memory partition already has a paging space device allocated to it based on the size requirements of the previously activated partition profile. If you create a paging space device that is large enough to meet the size requirements of multiple partition profiles and you activate the shared memory partition with a different partition profile, the  can use the same paging space device for the newly activated partition profile. If the paging space device does not meet the size requirements of the newly activated partition profile, the  frees the paging space device currently allocated to the shared memory partition and allocates a different paging space device that meets the size requirements specified in the newly activated partition profile.  Redundancy preferencesThe  allocates a paging space device to a shared memory partition that satisfies the redundancy preferences that you specify for partition activation: If you specify that the shared memory partition uses redundant paging VIOS partitions, the  uses the following process to select a suitable paging space device for the shared memory partition:The  assigns a paging space device that is common and available. (A paging space device is available when it is not currently assigned to a shared memory partition and is inactive.) If the  cannot find a paging space device that is common and available, it reassigns a paging space device that is common and unavailable. (A paging space device is unavailable when it is active and currently assigned to a shared memory partition that is shut down.) If the  cannot find a paging space device that is common and unavailable, it cannot activate the shared memory partition. If you specify that the shared memory partition does not use redundant paging VIOS partitions, the  uses the following process to select a suitable paging space device for the shared memory partition: The  assigns a paging space device that is independent and available. (A paging space device is independent when it is accessed by only one paging VIOS partition that is assigned to the shared memory partition.) If the  cannot find a paging space device that is independent and available, the  reassigns a paging space device that is independent and unavailable. If the  cannot find a paging space device that is independent and unavailable, and two paging VIOS partitions are assigned to the shared memory pool, then the  assigns a paging space device that is common and available.  If the  cannot find a paging space device that is common and available, and two paging VIOS partitions are assigned to the shared memory pool, then the  reassigns a paging space device that is common and unavailable.  If the  cannot find a paging space device that is common and unavailable, it cannot activate the shared memory partition. If you specify that the shared memory partition use redundant paging VIOS partitions, if possible, the  uses the following process to select a suitable paging space device for the shared memory partition:The  assigns a paging space device that is common and available. If the  cannot find a paging space device that is common and available, it assigns a paging space device that is common and unavailable. If the  cannot find a paging space device that is common and unavailable, it assigns a paging space device that is independent and available to the primary paging VIOS partition. In this situation, the shared memory partition does not use redundant paging VIOS partitions and the primary paging VIOS partition is the only paging VIOS partition that is assigned to the shared memory partition. If the  cannot find a paging space device that is independent and available to the primary paging VIOS partition, it assigns a paging space device that is independent and unavailable to the primary paging VIOS partition. In this situation, the shared memory partition does not use redundant paging VIOS partitions and the primary paging VIOS partition is the only paging VIOS partition that is assigned to the shared memory partition. If the  cannot find a paging space device that is independent and unavailable to the primary paging VIOS partition, it assigns a paging space device that is independent and available to the secondary paging VIOS partition. In this situation, the shared memory partition does not use redundant paging VIOS partitions and the secondary paging VIOS partition is the only paging VIOS partition that is assigned to the shared memory partition. If the  cannot find a paging space device that is independent and available to the secondary paging VIOS partition, it assigns a paging space device that is independent and unavailable to the secondary paging VIOS partition. In this situation, the shared memory partition does not use redundant paging VIOS partitions and the secondary paging VIOS partition is the only paging VIOS partition that is assigned to the shared memory partition. If the  cannot find a paging space device that is independent and unavailable to the secondary paging VIOS partition, it cannot activate the shared memory partition. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related reference:         
 Adding and removing paging space devices to and from the shared memory pool After you create the shared memory pool, you can add and remove paging space devices to and from the shared memory pool by using the  (). Before you add a paging space device, complete the following tasks: Configure the paging space device to the  () logical partitions (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partitions) that are assigned to the shared memory pool.  Verify that all paging VIOS partitions are running. Before you remove a paging space device, complete the following tasks: If no logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) is using the paging space device, verify that the paging space device is inactive. If a shared memory partition is using the paging space device, verify that the shared memory partition is shut down. Verify that all paging VIOS partitions are running. You must be a super administrator or operator of the  to add and remove paging space devices to and from the shared memory pool. To add and remove paging space devices, complete the following steps from the :  The Shared Memory Pool wizard is displayed.   Paging space devices can only be assigned to one shared memory pool at a time. You cannot assign the same paging space device to a shared memory pool on one system and to another shared memory pool on another system at the same time.   If you expect to see a particular device on the list of eligible devices to add to the shared memory pool, but the device does not appear, you can run the  command from the  command line. You can run the  command to determine why the device does not meet the requirements for paging space devices and to learn what tasks need to be performed on the device to satisfy the requirements. If a device was used by a logical partition and then the logical partition was removed, the device might not meet the requirements for a paging space device, even though the logical partition was removed. The  command detects this situation and provides instructions about how to change the device so that it meets the requirements for a paging space device. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Creating a virtual disk for a VIOS logical partition using the HMC You can use the  () to create a virtual disk on your managed system. Virtual disks are also known as logical volumes. To modify virtual storage, be sure you meet the following requirements:The  must be at version 7.7.4, or later. The  () must be at version 2.2.1.0, or later. Ensure that there is a resource monitoring and control connection between the  and the  to manage storage. To create a virtual disk, complete the following steps in the :  The Create virtual disk page is displayed.  The  creates the new virtual disk with your specifications, and the Virtual Disks page is displayed. If possible, do not create virtual disks within the rootvg storage pool. Create one or more additional storage pools and create the virtual disks using the additional storage pools. These steps are equivalent to using the  command in the command-line interface. If there is not enough disk space for the virtual disk, increase the size of the storage pool. For instructions, see  Parent topic:          
 Changing a virtual disk for a VIOS logical partition using the  You can use the  () to view the properties of the virtual disks on your managed system, as well as to start virtual disk management tasks. Virtual disks are also known as logical volumes. To assign the virtual disk to a client partition, ensure that the client partition owns one or more virtual SCSI adapters and that the  () owns corresponding virtual SCSI adapters that host the client adapter. To change a virtual disk, be sure you meet the following requirements:The  must be at version 7.7.4, or later. The  must be at version 2.2.1.0, or later. Ensure that there is a resource monitoring and control connection between the  and the . To view and to change virtual disks, complete the following steps in the :  If a virtual disk is defined as a paging space device and is assigned to a shared memory pool, it is dedicated to providing this function and is no longer available for any other purpose. Consequently, such a virtual disk is not listed here.   to view the properties of the selected virtual disks.  to add storage capacity to the selected virtual disks.  to delete the selected virtual disk and make the storage resources that belonged to that virtual disk available to other virtual disks.  to change the logical partition to which the selected virtual disk is assigned, or to set the selected virtual disk so it is not assigned to any logical partitions. Parent topic:          
 Managing virtual resources for Virtual I/O Server logical partitions using the  Use the  () to manage virtual storage that is associated with  logical partitions. You can use the  () to view the properties of the virtual disks on your managed system, as well as to start virtual disk management tasks. You can use the  to view and to change physical optical devices . You can use the  () to extend a storage pool, to reduce or remove a storage pool, and to assign a storage pool as the default storage pool for the managed system.  You can use the  () to view the properties of the physical volumes on your managed system, as well as to start physical volume management tasks.  You can use the  () to dynamically manage virtual Fibre Channel on your managed system and the partition connections for the associated physical Fibre Channel ports. Assigning one or more physical ports to a logical partition enables the partition to communicate with storage devices in a storage area network (SAN). Configuring this type of storage resource is available only when the system supports the use of virtual Fibre Channel adapters and has a physical Fibre Channel adapter installed and connected that supports N_Port ID Virtualization (NPIV) ports. Parent topic:          
 Changing an optical device for a VIOS logical partition by using the  You can use the  to view and to change physical optical devices . You can add optical devices to, or remove optical devices from, any logical partition, whether or not the logical partition is active. If you remove an optical device from an active logical partition, the  prompts you to confirm the removal before removing the optical device. To assign an optical device to a client partition, ensure that the client partition owns one or more virtual SCSI adapters and that the VIOS owns corresponding virtual SCSI adapters that host the client adapter. To change virtual optical media, be sure you meet the following requirements:The  must be at version 7 release 3.4.2 or later. The  must be at version 2.1.1.0 or later. Ensure that there is a resource monitoring and control connection between the  and the . Verify that a virtual media library exists before you manage, create, or assign virtual optical devices. To view and change optical devices, complete the following steps in the :  (You cannot assign a physical optical device to an  logical partition. An  logical partition must use virtual optical devices instead.) The Modify Physical Optical Device Assignment page is displayed.  The list of optical devices reflects the changes you made.   to extend the size of the media library.  to delete the media library and the files within the library.  to add an optical media file to the media library and make it available for assignment to a partition.   to change the partition assignment for a media file by changing the virtual optical device to which a media file is assigned. You can assign read-only media to more than one partition.   to delete the selected media files from the media library. Parent topic:          
 Changing a storage pool for a VIOS logical partition using the  You can use the  () to extend a storage pool, to reduce or remove a storage pool, and to assign a storage pool as the default storage pool for the managed system.  To view and change storage pools, be sure you meet the following requirements:The  must be at version 7 release 3.4.2 or later. The  must be at version 2.1.1.0 or later. Ensure that there is a resource monitoring and control connection between the  and the . To view and to change storage pools, complete the following steps in the :   to view the properties of the selected storage pool.   to add storage capacity to the selected storage pool. To extend logical volume-based storage pools, add physical volumes to the storage pool. To extend file-based storage pools, add space from the parent storage pool to the file-based storage pool.  You cannot add a physical volume to a storage pool if it is already assigned to a partition.  to reduce the size of the selected storage pool. To reduce logical volume-based storage pools, remove physical volumes from the storage pool. To reduce the file-based storage pool, the storage pool is deleted.   Reducing a storage pool that contains virtual disks could potentially destroy data stored on the virtual disks. Parent topic:          
 Changing a physical volume for a VIOS logical partition using the  You can use the  () to view the properties of the physical volumes on your managed system, as well as to start physical volume management tasks.  A physical volume can be a hard disk or a logical device on a storage area network (SAN). You can either assign a physical volume directly to a logical partition, or you can add a physical volume to a storage pool and create virtual disks to assign to logical partitions from the storage pool. To change physical volumes, be sure you meet the following requirements:The  must be at version 7 release 3.4.2 or later. The  must be at version 2.1.1.0 or later. Ensure that there is a resource monitoring and control connection between the  and the . To view and to modify physical volumes, complete the following steps in the :   If a physical volume is defined as a paging space device and is assigned to a shared memory pool, it is dedicated to providing this function and is not available for any other purpose. Consequently, such a physical volume is not listed here.   to view or change the properties of the selected physical volume.   to change the logical partition to which the selected physical volume is assigned, or to set the physical volume so it is not assigned to any logical partition.   to add the selected physical volume to a storage pool.   to remove the selected physical volume from the selected storage pool.  Parent topic:          
 Changing virtual Fibre Channel for a  using the  You can use the  () to dynamically manage virtual Fibre Channel on your managed system and the partition connections for the associated physical Fibre Channel ports. Assigning one or more physical ports to a logical partition enables the partition to communicate with storage devices in a storage area network (SAN). Configuring this type of storage resource is available only when the system supports the use of virtual Fibre Channel adapters and has a physical Fibre Channel adapter installed and connected that supports N_Port ID Virtualization (NPIV) ports. To assign the virtual Fibre Channel adapter to a physical port, ensure that the client logical partition owns one or more virtual Fibre Channel adapters and that the  owns corresponding virtual Fibre Channel adapters to host the client adapter. To change a port connection assignment for a logical partition, the partition must be either in the  or the  state. If the partition is in the  state, the partition must also be capable of dynamic partitioning (DLPAR). To avoid configuring the physical Fibre Channel adapter to be a single point of failure for the connection between the client logical partition and its physical storage on the SAN, do not connect two virtual Fibre Channel adapters from the same client logical partition to the same physical Fibre Channel adapter. Instead, connect each virtual Fibre Channel adapter to a different physical Fibre Channel adapter. To change virtual Fibre Channel, be sure you meet the following requirements:The  must be at version 7 release 3.4.2 or later. The  must be at version 2.1.1.0 or later. Ensure that there is a resource monitoring and control connection between the  and the . To configure the physical port connections for virtual Fibre Channel, complete the following steps in the :  The Modify Virtual Fibre Channel Partition Assignment page is displayed.   If you delete the client virtual Fibre Channel adapter from the partition or the partition profile, the worldwide port names associated with the port and the storage area network (SAN) are lost. If you only change the port assignment, the worldwide port names are preserved inside the partition profile. The  does not reuse them when it generates port names in the future. If you run out of port names, you must obtain a code key to enable an additional prefix and range of port names for use on your system.   To determine the actual number of port names available on the managed system, use the  to view the partition properties or partition profile properties of the client logical partition. Parent topic:          
 Managing logical partitions You can manage the configuration of your logical partitions using the  (). The  allows you to adjust the hardware resources that are used by each logical partition. You can activate many logical partitions at a time by using the  () to activate a system profile. A system profile is an ordered list of partition profiles. When you activate a system profile, the managed system attempts to activate the partition profiles in the system profile in the order in which the partition profiles are listed. You can shut down and restart logical partitions running on systems that are managed by a  (). You can manage the partition profiles for your logical partitions using the  (). You can change the resource specifications stored in your partition profiles as your needs change. You can manage the system profiles on your managed system using the  (). You can change the logical partitions and partition profiles specified within the system profiles as the logical partitions change on your managed system. You use the  () to add, remove, or move processor, memory, and I/O resources between running logical partitions without restarting the logical partitions or the managed system.  Use the  () to manage virtual storage that is associated with  logical partitions. You can use the  () to change the memory configuration of a logical partition. For example, you can  change the memory mode of a logical partition, and dynamically add and remove dedicated or shared memory to and from a logical partition. When all of the worldwide port names (WWPNs) on the server are used, you can add more WWPNs to the server using the  (). Adding WWPNs allows you to create additional virtual Fibre Channel adapters on client logical partitions that use virtual resources provided by the . To avoid shutting down mission-critical workloads when your server firmware deconfigures a failing processor, you can use the  () to set partition-availablity priorities for the logical partitions on your managed system. A logical partition with a failing processor can acquire a replacement processor from logical partitions with a lower partition-availability priority. The acquisition of a replacement processor allows the logical partition with the higher partition-availability priority to continue running after a processor failure. It is crucial that you back up your data because you never know when you might need to do a server recovery. Save everything in your system as often as possible. You might not be prepared to recover from a site loss or certain types of disk failures if you do not regularly save everything. You can manage logical partitions that use  virtual I/O resources to help maximize utilization of the physical hardware and simplify the backup procedure for your managed system.  Parent topic:          
 Activating a logical partition You can use the  () to activate a logical partition based on its current configuration instead of a partition profile. When you activate the logical partition, the system commits resources to the logical partition based on the current configuration of the logical partition and starts the operating system or software that is installed on the logical partition. Logical partitions start faster when activated based on their current configuration data than when activated with a partition profile. You can view the resource configuration status of a logical partition by using the  ().  On a  () that is at Version 7 Release 7.8.0, or later, you can apply a profile to a logical partition without powering on the logical partition by using the  command-line interface.  Parent topic:          
 Activating a partition profile  A partition profile is a record on the  that specifies a possible configuration for a logical partition. If you plan to activate a logical partition that uses virtual resources provided by the , you must first activate the  () logical partition that provides the virtual resources. If you plan to activate a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition), you must first activate at least one  logical partition that meets the following criteria: The  logical partition (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) must provide access to an available paging space device that meets the size requirements of the shared memory partition. The paging VIOS partition must be assigned to the shared memory pool. If the shared memory partition is configured with redundant paging  partitions, activate both paging  partitions before you activate the shared memory partition. When you activate a shared memory partition and the shared memory pool does not contain enough physical memory required for activation, you can release to the hypervisor the physical memory that is currently assigned to other shared memory partitions that are shut down. The hypervisor can then assign the released physical memory to the shared memory partition that you want to activate. To activate a partition profile by using the , follow these steps:     The  window is displayed because it might take some time to load the network adapters.  The installation progress pane displays the status of the  installation in the progress bar. To view the details about the progress of the installation, click the  tab.   A message is displayed that the  installation was successful. If you selected  as the installation source, the NIM installation starts after you click  in the installation progress pane. To view the progress of the NIM installation from a virtual terminal, click . When the NIM installation is complete, a message is displayed that the installation was successful.  If the  option fails repeatedly and the Installation of Virtual I/O Server failed. Please contact the system administrator message is displayed, you must type the installios -u command from the  command line to continue with the installation.    This option is disabled when you select  as the value for the  field.     If the logical partition that you want to activate is a shared memory partition and there is not enough physical memory in the shared memory pool by which to activate the shared memory partition, the Release Memory Resources window is displayed. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related information:         
 Installing the  by using the  Version 7 Release 7.7, or later Find instructions for installing the  () from a DVD device, a saved image, or a Network Installation Management (NIM) server by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.7.0, or later. Before you start, complete the following tasks:Ensure that you meet the following requirements:An  is attached to the managed system. The  logical partition and logical partition profile are created. Ensure that the  is at Version 7 Release 7.7.0, or later.  Obtain the following information for the :IP address for the  Subnet mask for the  Default gateway for the  To install the , complete the following steps from the  graphical interface:  To install the  by using a DVD device, complete the following steps:Click . Enter the details in the , , and  fields. Click . To install the  by using a saved image, complete the following steps:Click . Enter the details in the , , , and  fields. Click . To install the  by using a Network Installation Management (NIM) server, complete the following steps:Click . Enter the details in the , , , and  fields. Click . After you install the , finish the installation by checking for updates, setting up remote connections, and creating additional user IDs. For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Finishing the  installation After you install , you must check for updates, set up remote connects, create additional user IDs, and so on. This procedure assumes that  is installed. For instructions, see . To finish the installation, complete the following steps:  For instructions, see .  For instructions, see . Optional:  For information about creating user IDs, see .  You must complete this task before you can perform any dynamic logical partitioning operations.  When you are finished, do one of the following tasks: Create client logical partitions.  You do not need to perform this task if you deployed a system plan to create all your client logical partitions.   Configure the  and install client operating systems. For information, see  and Logical partitioning.  For more information about , see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Installing the  Find instructions for installing the  by deploying a system plan or manually creating the logical partition and logical partition profiles and installing the  (). These instructions apply to installing the  on a system that is managed by a  (). If you plan to install the  on a system that is not managed by an , then you need to install the .  The installation procedures vary depending on the following factors: The version of  attached to the managed system on which you plan to install the .  Version 7 displays a different interface than prior versions of the .  Version 7 also provides the ability to deploy a system plan that includes the . Whether you plan to deploy a system plan that includes the  and client logical partitions. When you deploy a system plan, the  automatically performs the following tasks based on the information provided in the system plan:Creates the  logical partition and logical partition profile. Installs the  and provisions virtual resources. Creates the client logical partitions and logical partition profiles. Installs the  operating systems on client logical partitions. The  must be at V7R3.3.0, or later.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to install the . You can create the  logical partition and logical partition profile, and you can install the  () by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.1, or later. When you reinstall the  (VIOS) that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition), you need to reconfigure the shared memory environment. For example, you might need to add the paging space devices again to the shared memory pool. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Installing the Integrated Virtualization Manager Install the Virtual I/O Server management partition on an IBM Power System server. Then, connect to the Integrated Virtualization Manager Web-based interface. When you install the  in an environment where no  () is present, the  automatically creates a management partition whose interface is the . When you install the  on  blade server with Power Architecture® technology, the  automatically creates a management partition whose interface is the . After you install the  (), you need to accept the license agreement, check for updates, configure the TCP/IP connection. Learn how to connect to the Web-based system management interface for the . Learn how to connect to the  command-line interface, which allows you to use commands for the . Parent topic:     |      
 Installing the  and enabling the  on  servers When you install the  in an environment where no  () is present, the  automatically creates a management partition whose interface is the . Before you start, ensure that you have completed the following tasks: Verify that you have cabled the server. Specifically, ensure that you have connected a serial cable from a PC or ASCII terminal to a  on the server. Verify that the system disk has been formatted to contain 512 bytes per sector. The Virtual I/O Server only recognizes disks that have been formatted for 512 bytes per sector.  Verify that you have access to the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI) by using the Web interface. Verify that you have administrator or authorized service provider authority in ASMI. Using the Web-based ASMI, change the following settings as appropriate for the type of partition on which you are installing the : For  partition, complete the following steps to change the partition boot mode: In the navigation area, expand .  Click .  Select  in the  by boot field.  If you are installing the  on an  model, select  in the  field.  Click . Open a terminal session on the PC, using an application such as HyperTerminal, and wait for the SMS menu to appear. Be sure that the line speed is set to 19,200 bits per second to communicate with the system unit.  Using the Web-based ASMI, change the partition boot mode back so that the server loads the operating environment during startup: Expand . Click . Select  in the  boot field. Click . To install the  and enable the , complete the following steps:      The managed system restarts after the installation is complete, and the login prompt is displayed on the ASCII terminal. After you install the , finish the installation by accepting the license agreement, checking for updates, and configuring the TCP/IP connection.  Parent topic:     |      
 Finishing the  installation After you install the  (), you need to accept the license agreement, check for updates, configure the TCP/IP connection. This procedure assumes that the  is installed. For instructions, see . To finish the installation, complete the following steps:  This allows you to access the  interface from a computer that is connected to the physical Ethernet adapter. You cannot use the 1 and 2 ports to connect to the management partition.  You must configure TCP/IP before you can perform any dynamic logical partitioning operations.      When you are finished, configure the management partition and client logical partitions. For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:    |      
 Installing the  and enabling the  on  blade server with Power Architecture technology When you install the  on  blade server with Power Architecture® technology, the  automatically creates a management partition whose interface is the . Before you start, ensure that you have completed the following tasks: Start a Telnet or SSH session to the  blade server management module.  Start a Serial over LAN (SOL) session.  Start the System Management Services (SMS) utility.  To install the  and enable the , complete the following steps:   Alternatively, you can assign the media try to the blade server by using the control panel.      Verify the actual location code (for example, 01-08-00-1,0) of the target hard disk. The logical name for the hard disks (for example, hdisk0) that is displayed in this menu can be different from the logical name for the same hard disk that is listed within the  (for example, from the  command) that runs on the same machine. This can happen when you add disks after you install the .  The managed system restarts after the installation is complete, and the login prompt is displayed on the ASCII terminal. After you install the , finish the installation by accepting the license agreement, checking for updates, and configuring the TCP/IP connection.  Parent topic:     |      
 Starting system management services Learn how to start system management services (SMS) from a partitioned or nonpartitioned server. Learn how to start system management services (SMS) from a partitioned server using a  (). Learn how to start system management services (SMS) menus using the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI). Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Starting system management services from a logically partitioned server Learn how to start system management services (SMS) from a partitioned server using a  (). If you have a logically partitioned system, complete the following tasks: The logical partition must be shut down, and you must set the partition to start in SMS mode to access SMS. In the navigation area, select . In the navigation area, select the managed system that you want to work with. In the contents area, select the logical partition that you want to work with. Select . In the  window, select the logical partition that you want to work with. Select . Click on the  tab. In the  section, select . Click . Restart the logical partition by selecting  in the  window. The SMS menus are displayed on the console. If you do not already have a console for this session, select , and click . The system starts and the SMS menus are shown on the session's console. Parent topic:     |      
 Starting system management services from a nonpartitioned server Learn how to start system management services (SMS) menus using the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI). Parent topic:  Starting the SMS menus from the ASMI If the ASMI is available on a network-attached console and the system is in standby, perform the following steps:  For details, see . Starting the SMS menus when the ASMI is not available and the system is in standby If the ASMI is not available and the system is in standby, complete the following steps:   For details, see .    |      
 Power-on self-test keys The power-on self-test (POST) keys can start services or initiate service mode boots used for configuring the system and diagnosing problems. After power is turned on and before the operating system is loaded, the system does a power-on self-test (POST). This test performs checks to ensure that the hardware is functioning correctly before the operating system is loaded. During the POST, a POST screen is displayed, and POST indicators appear on the firmware console (if one is connected). The POST keys, if pressed after the keyboard POST indicator is displayed and before the last POST indicator speaker is displayed, cause the system to start services or to initiate service mode boots used for configuring the system and diagnosing problems.  The program function keys (F1-F12) on a keyboard attached to the service processor are not used and are ignored. After the keyboard POST indicator is displayed, you must use the numeric number keys. The numeric 1 key, when pressed during POST, starts the system management services interface. The numeric 5 key, when pressed during POST, initiates a system boot in service mode using the default service mode boot list. This mode attempts to boot from the first device of each type found in the list. It does not search for other bootable devices of that type if the first device is not bootable. Instead, it continues to the next device type in the list.   The default boot sequence is:  Diskette (if installed) CD-ROM (if installed) Tape drive (if installed) Hard file Network  The numeric 6 key works like the numeric 5 key. Parent topic:     |      
 Managing system management services Use the menus within system management services (SMS) to view information about your system or partition and to perform tasks, such as changing the boot list and setting the network parameters. These menus can be used for  logical partitions, for the Virtual I/O Server (VIOS), and for the Integrated Virtualization Manager (IVM). Read about new or significantly changed information in Managing system management services since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF file of this information. Learn how to start system management services (SMS) from a partitioned or nonpartitioned server. Learn how the system management services (SMS) menus can help you manage your system. The power-on self-test (POST) keys can start services or initiate service mode boots used for configuring the system and diagnosing problems. After you finish using the SMS menus, type x (for exit) to boot your system.    |      
 What's new in Managing system management services Read about new or significantly changed information in Managing system management services since the previous update of this topic collection. October 2013Added information about the new option ping test for the ISCSI Discovery Selection. Use this option to perform the ping test for client IP address, server IP address, gateway IP address or subnet mask. Updated a menu item in the  in configuring the boot order menu. October 2012Added information about the new options for the Advanced Setup option to support multiple VLANs in a bridged network. Use this option to share the physical network link. May 2012Added information about the new option on the Boot Options menu that supports storage area network (SAN) zoning. February 2010Added information for IBM Power Systems™ servers that contain the  processor. Parent topic:     |      
 Selecting the ISCSI option If you select , you can select which iSCSI alias to set up with network parameters. You also have the  option, in which the iSCSI parameters are not saved. When you finish using the iSCSI menus, you can choose any of the other menus or tasks that are listed in Using system management services. ISCSI Alias Selection No alias   : Port 1-IBM 2 PORT 1000 Base-SX PCI-X Adapter: Un-P1-T7  1. ISCSI_DISK1  2. ISCSI_DISK2 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type menu item number and press Enter or select Navigation key: _    If you select an  alias, the ISCSI Discovery Selection menu is displayed. ISCSI Discovery Selection iscsi_disk1: Port 1-IBM 2 PORT 1000 Base-SX PCI-X Adapter: Un-P1-T7  1. Enter Static Parameters.  2. Ping Test. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type menu item number and press Enter or select Navigation key: _    When you select , a menu similar to the following example is displayed. ISCSI Ping Test Parameters iscsi_disk1: Port 1-IBM 2 PORT 1000 Base-SX PCI-X Adapter: Un-P1-T7 Client IP Address  Server IP Address  Gateway IP Address  Subnet Mask  1. Execute ping test -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type menu item number and press Enter or select Navigation key: _ When you select , the ISCSI Initiator Parameters menu is displayed. ISCSI Initiator Parameters iscsi_disk1: Port 1-IBM 2 PORT 1000 Base-SX PCI-X Adapter: Un-P1-T7  1. Client IP Address  [ ]  2. Gateway IP Address [ ]  3. Subnet Mask        [ ]  4. Initiator Name.  5. Enter Target Parameters. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type menu item number and press Enter or select Navigation key: _    Use the ISCSI Target Parameters menu to set the target parameters.  ISCSI Target Parameters iscsi_disk1: Port 1-IBM 2 PORT 1000 Base-SX PCI-X Adapter: Un-P1-T7  1. Target IP Address  [ ]  2. ISCSI PORT         [3260]  3. Target lun         [0]  4. Set ISCSI Target Name -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type menu item number and press Enter or select Navigation key: _    Select  to set the target's name. If you select  on the  menu or  on the ISCSI Target Parameters menu, a menu similar to the following example is displayed. Enter Target Name iscsi_disk1: Port 1-IBM 2 PORT 1000 Base-SX PCI-X Adapter: Un-P1-T7  Must be at least 4 characters.  Press Backspace key to delete.  Press Enter     key to save.  Press Esc       key to exit without saving name. 1.  Clear Current Name. 2.  Edit  Current Name. [ ] -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type menu item number and press Enter or select Navigation key: _    The initiator name is required if the adapter that you selected on the  menu for the iSCSI network is a network adapter (for example, Ethernet). If the selected adapter is a TCP/IP over Ethernet or TCP/IP offload engine adapter, then the initiator name is in the microcode on the adapter and does not have to be set by the user. Parent topic:     |      
 Setting up a remote IPL Learn how to set up a remote initial program load (IPL) using the (SMS) menus. When you select the  option you can enable and set up the remote startup capability of your server or logical partition. A list of network interface card (NIC) adapters in the server is displayed. An example of this menu follows:  , only those network adapters that have been assigned to the partition being booted are displayed in the NIC Adapters menu. In , all network adapters in the system are listed in the adapter parameters menu. An example of the NIC Adapters menu follows. NIC Adapters 		       Device                       Slot                  Hardware Address  1. Port 1 - 2 PORT Gigabit Et       Un-P1-T9                  00096bff616b  2. Port 2 - 2 PORT Gigabit Et       Un-P1-T10                 00096bff616a  3. 10/100/1000 Base-TX PCI-X        Un-CB1-C03-T1             000295e3814f -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    When you select an adapter, menus similar to the following examples might be displayed. Select Internet Protocol Version.  1. IPv4 - Address Format 123.231.111.222  2. IPv6 - Address Format 1234:5678:90ab:cdef:1234:5678:90ab:cdef -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type menu item number and press Enter or select Navigation key: _    Select Network Service No alias   : Port 1-IBM Host Ethernet Adapter: Un-P1-T6  1. BOOTP  2. ISCSI -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type menu item number and press Enter or select Navigation key: _     The menus depend on the selections you have made. For example, if IPv6 is chosen, the network interface card (NIC) might be configured for Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) boot. If IPv4 is chosen, the NIC might be configured for BOOTP. If you select  or  option, the adapter is set up (and the network parameters are entered) as usual. The Network Parameters menu is displayed. If you select , you can select which iSCSI alias to set up with network parameters. You also have the  option, in which the iSCSI parameters are not saved. When you finish using the iSCSI menus, you can choose any of the other menus or tasks that are listed in Using system management services. Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
 Selecting the BOOTP or TFTP option If you select  or  option, the adapter is set up (and the network parameters are entered) as usual. The Network Parameters menu is displayed. After you select the  or  option on the Select Network Service menu, the Network Parameters menu is displayed. The menus and options change depending on whether IPv4 or IPv6 was selected on the Select Internet Protocol Version menu. A menu similar to the following example is displayed. Network Parameters Port 1 - 2 PORT Gigabit Et    Un-P1-T9     00096bff616b  1. IP Parameters  2. Adapter Parameters  3. Ping Test  4. Advanced Setup: BOOTP/TFTP -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    Selecting the IP (Internet Protocol) parameters option displays a menu similar to the following example. IP Parameters Port 1 - 2 PORT Gigabit Et    Un-P1-T9     00096bff616b  1. Client IP Address    [9.8.38.50]  2. Server IP Address    [9.8.38.51]  3. Gateway IP Address   [9.8.38.1]  4. Subnet Mask          [255.255.255.000] -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    To change IP parameters, type the number of the parameters for which you want to change the value. Entering IP parameters on this menu automatically updates the parameters on the ping test menu. Select the  option from the Network Parameters menu to test the network connection of an adapter to a remote system. After you select the ping test option, the Ping Test menu is displayed. Perform a Ping test by selecting the configuration options.  After you start the ping test, it might take 60 seconds or longer to return a result. After the ping test passes or fails, the firmware stops and waits for a key to be pressed before continuing.   Select the  option from the Network Parameters menu to configure the BOOTP or TFTP boot parameters. For BOOTP, the values 5, 512, 5, 0 and 0 are the respective default values for the following options. Advanced Setup: BOOTP/TFTP Port 1-IBM 2 PORT 1000 Base-SX PCI-X Adapter: U788D.001.23A0034-P1-T7  1. Bootp Retries		5  2. Bootp Blocksize		512  3. TFTP Retries		5  4. VLAN Priority		0  5. VLAN ID			0 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    Select the  option from the Advanced Setup menu to set the VLAN priority, and select the  option to set the VLAN ID.  The default setting of the VLAN Priority option is 0, but a decimal value in the range 0 - 7 can be set for the frame priority. An error message is displayed if a value greater than 7 is entered, in which case the default value is set back to the VLAN Priority option. The default value for the VLAN ID option is 0 and is reserved, because this frame does not belong to any VLAN. Values must be entered as a decimal numbers. Valid values for a VLAN ID must be in the range 1 - 4094. If the VLAN ID option is set to 0, VLAN tagging is disabled. An error message is displayed if a decimal value greater than 4094 is entered, in which case the default value is set back to the VLAN ID option. Parent topic:     |      
 Using system management services Learn how the system management services (SMS) menus can help you manage your system. There are many tasks that you can access using the system management services (SMS) menus. From the main menu, you can select a language, set up remote IPLs, change SCSI settings, select a console, and select boot options. You can choose from among a range of language options in the system management services. Learn how to set up a remote initial program load (IPL) using the (SMS) menus. You can set the network speed and set the protocol. You can view and change the addresses of the SCSI controllers attached to your system. You can select which console to use to display the SMS menus. You can install or boot a device, configure a boot device order, select the multiboot startup option, or select the storage area network (SAN) zoning support option. Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
 Menus and descriptions There are many tasks that you can access using the system management services (SMS) menus. If you have not performed the steps to start the system management services, see .  If the firmware console is a graphics terminal, you might need to enter the password for the service processor's admin user that was set using the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI). In a partitioned server, SMS menus display only those devices that are assigned to the partition that is being booted. In a partition that uses all the resources in a server, SMS menus display all devices in the system. In some of the following example menus, Un is used in place of Ufeature_code.model.serial number for legibility.   The following table contains the titles of the menus or tasks that can be accessed using the SMS menus. Use it to access and review the specific task that you want. These titles and menu contents are subject to change. Do not rely on exact content, such as with scripting. Menu or task Description  Main menu Displays the opening menu when first starting SMS. Select language Changes the language used by the SMS menus. Setup remote IPL Enables and sets up the remote startup capability of your server. Adapter configuration Sets both the network speed and the protocol. Speed, duplex Sets the interface speed at which the adapter runs and you can select half or full duplex. Protocol Sets the appropriate protocol for your network. Ping test Tests an adapter's network connection to a remote system. Advanced setup: BOOTP Changes the BOOTP values. Change SCSI settings Changes the addresses of the SCSI controllers attached to your system. Select console Selects which console to use to display the SMS menus. Select boot options Sets various options regarding the installation devices and boot devices. The Select boot options menu provides the following options: Select Install or Boot Device, Select Boot Devices, Multiboot Startup, and SAN Zoning Support.  Normal mode boot or service mode boot Performs a boot in the normal or service mode. Hard drive Displays a menu that identifies the different types of bootable disk drives installed on your system, for example, SCSI. Set boot sequence Sets the location of the device in the boot list.  The Set boot sequence menu provides the following options: display current settings, restore default settings, multiboot startup, and exiting system management services. Parent topic:     |      
 Main menu and navigation From the main menu, you can select a language, set up remote IPLs, change SCSI settings, select a console, and select boot options. After the SMS starts, a menu similar to the following example is displayed.Main Menu  1. Select Language  2. Setup Remote IPL (Initial Program Load)  3. Change SCSI Settings  4. Select Console  5. Select Boot Options  6. Firmware Boot Side Options  7. Progress Indicator History -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys:                                              X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _   On all menus except the main menu, you can use several navigation keys: M Return to the main menu. ESC Return to the previous menu. X Exit the SMS and start the operating system. If you enter X, you are asked to confirm your choice to exit the SMS menus and start the operating system. When more than one page of information can be displayed, two additional navigation keys are available: N Display the next page of the list. P Display the previous page of the list.  The lowercase navigation key has the same effect as the uppercase key that is shown on the menu. For example,  or  returns you to the main menu. On each menu, you can choose a menu item and press Enter (if applicable), or select a navigation key. Parent topic:     |      
 Selecting the language in system management services You can choose from among a range of language options in the system management services. When you select the  option, you can change the language used by the SMS menus.  If you change the language by selecting the option, only the language used by the firmware SMS menus is changed, not the operating system language.  If you are using an ASCII terminal, it must support the ISO-8859 character set to correctly display languages other than English. The available languages include the following: ISO8859–1	English (United States) ISO8859–1	French ISO8859–1	German ISO8859–1	Italian ISO8859–1	Spanish IS08859-1 Portuguese (Brazil) BIG5 Chinese (Traditional) GB2312 Chinese (Simplified) EUC-JP Japanese EUC-KR Korean UTF-8 English (United States) UTF-8 Spanish UTF-8 French UTF-8 German UTF-8 Italian UTF-8 Portuguese (Brazil) UTF-8 Chinese (Traditional) UTF-8 Chinese (Simplified UTF) UTF-8 Japanese UTF-8 Korean Parent topic:     |      
 Configuring adapters You can set the network speed and set the protocol. When you select the  option, you can set the network speed and set the protocol as shown in the following menu. Adapter Configuration Port 1 - 2 PORT Gigabit Et    Un-P1-T9     00096bff616b 1.  Speed, Duplex 2.  Protocol -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    When you select the  option, the next Adapter Configuration menu is displayed. When you select the  option, you can set the appropriate protocol for your network. Parent topic:     |      
 Selecting the speed, duplex option When you select the  option, the next Adapter Configuration menu is displayed. An example of the Speed, Duplex menu follows. The options available on this menu depend on the capabilities of the chosen adapter. You can set the interface speed at which the adapter runs. Speed, Duplex Port 1 - 2 PORT Gigabit Et    Un-P1-T9     00096bff616b 1.  auto, auto -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    Parent topic:     |      
 Selecting the protocol option When you select the  option, you can set the appropriate protocol for your network. An example of the Protocol menu follows. Protocol Port 1 - 2 PORT Gigabit Et    Un-P1-T9     00096bff616b  1. Standard  <===  2. IEEE802.3 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    Parent topic:     |      
 Changing SCSI settings You can view and change the addresses of the SCSI controllers attached to your system. When you select the  option, you can view and change the addresses of the SCSI controllers attached to your system. SCSI Utilities   1. Hardware Spin Up Delay   2. Change SCSI Id -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    Parent topic:     |      
 Selecting the console You can select which console to use to display the SMS menus. When you select the  option, you can select which console to use to display the SMS menus. This selection is only for the SMS menus and does not affect the console used by the operating system. Follow the instructions that are displayed on the console. The firmware automatically returns to the SMS main menu after the console is chosen.  If you do not change the console to another device before removing the current console, you must reattach the current console to change your console selection. Parent topic:     |      
 Selecting boot options You can install or boot a device, configure a boot device order, select the multiboot startup option, or select the storage area network (SAN) zoning support option. Only for the next boot, select a device from which to boot the operating system or install the operating system. The boot list stored in nonvolatile random access memory (NVRAM) will not be changed. You can view and change the customized boot list. The multiboot startup flag, if enabled, stops the system at the SMS menus every time the system starts. It allows you to start the system from another device. By using the storage area network (SAN) zoning option, you can perform SAN zoning for all Fibre Channel adapters, which includes the virtual Fibre Channel adapters that are assigned to the partition being booted. Parent topic:     |      
 Selecting to install or boot a device Only for the next boot, select a device from which to boot the operating system or install the operating system. The boot list stored in nonvolatile random access memory (NVRAM) will not be changed. Select the  option to view and set various options regarding the installation devices and boot devices.   1. Select Install/Boot a Device   2. Configure Boot Device Order   3. Multiboot Startup [OFF]   4. SAN Zoning Support -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    A menu similar to the following example is displayed.   Select Device Type  1.  Diskette  2.  Tape  3.  CD/DVD  4.  IDE  5.  Hard Drive  6.  Network  7.  List All Devices -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    If you select , a menu similar to the following example is displayed.   Select Hard Drive Type  1.  SCSI  2.  SSA  3.  SAN  4.  SAS  5.  SATA  6.  USB  7.  IDE  8.  ISA  9.  List All Devices -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    If you select , for example, all of the SCSI adapters that are in the system, or assigned to the logical partition, are displayed on the next menu. Depending on the devices that are installed in your system, a menu similar to the following is displayed. Version EM310_024 SMS 1.6 (c)  Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2005 All rights reserved. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Select Media Adapter 1.  Un-P1-T14 /pci@80000002000000d/pci@2/pci1069,b166@1/scsi@0 2.  Un-P1-T12 /pci@80000002000000f/pci@2,2/pci1069,b166@1/scsi@0 3.  Un-P1-T13 /pci@80000002000000f/pci@2,2/pci1069,b166@1/scsi@1 4.  List all devices -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    When you select an adapter, the next menu displays the bootable devices of the requested type that are attached to that adapter. In the following example, all of the bootable SCSI hard files that are attached to the first adapter are listed. Version EM310_024 SMS 1.6 (c)  Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2005 All rights reserved. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Select    Device Device    Current    Device  Number    Position   Name 1           1       SCSI 73407 MB Harddisk Un-P1-T14 /pci@80000002000000d/pci@2/                      pci1069,b166@1/scsi@0 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    You can now select the appropriate device for this installation or boot. When a device is selected for installing the operating system, or to boot from, the Select Task menu might be used to retrieve more information about the device, or to boot from that device in normal mode or service mode. The following is an example of this menu. Select Task SCSI 36401 MB Harddisk, part=2 (AIX 5.3.0)      (loc=U788D.001.06A0034-P1-T10-L1-L0) 1.  Information 2.  Normal Mode Boot 3.  Service Mode Boot --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen           X = eXit System Management Services --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _     If you select either  or , the next menu asks, Are you sure? If you answer yes, the device is booted  in the appropriate mode. If you answer no, the firmware returns to the Select Task menu. Parent topic:     |      
 Configuring boot device order You can view and change the customized boot list. To minimize the search time for bootable devices, these menus follow this hierarchy:  By selecting  from the Select Device Type menu or the Select Media Type menu, you can view all of the potentially bootable devices at one time. Only bootable hard disks are listed. The List All Devices function can take a long time, or may be incomplete on a large system with many I/O adapters and devices, such as large disk arrays. However, the following selection might reduce the overall time required to scan for all of the devices because the scan is restricted to the selected adapter. Select the  option to view and change the customized boot list, which is the sequence of devices read at startup.  Configure Boot Device Order  1.  Select 1st Boot Device  2.  Select 2nd Boot Device  3.  Select 3rd Boot Device  4.  Select 4th Boot Device  5.  Select 5th Boot Device  6.  Display Current Setting  7.  Restore Default Setting -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    When you select any of the options 1 - 5, the Select Device Type menu is displayed.  Select Device Type  1.  Diskette  2.  Tape  3.  CD/DVD  4.  IDE  5.  Hard Drive  6.  Network  7.  List All Devices -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    By selecting  from the Select Device Type menu or the Select Media Type menu, you can view all of the potentially bootable devices at one time. Only bootable hard disks are listed. The List All Devices function can take a long time or may be incomplete on a large system with many I/O adapters and devices, such as large disk arrays. However, the following selection might reduce the overall time required to scan for all of the devices because the scan is restricted to the selected adapter: . When you select a device type, such as option 5, a Select Media Type menu is displayed. The following is an example of that menu.  Select Media Type  1.  SCSI  2.  SSA  3.  SAN  4.  SAS  5.  SATA  6.  USB  7.  IDE  8.  ISA  9.  None 10.  List All Devices -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    When you select the media type, all adapters of that type are displayed on the Select Media Adapter menu. The following is an example of that menu for a SCSI media type. Version EM310_024 SMS 1.6 (c)  Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2005 All rights reserved. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Select Media Adapter 1.  Un-P1-T14 /pci@80000002000000d/pci@2/pci1069,b166@1/scsi@0 2.  Un-P1-T12 /pci@80000002000000f/pci@2,2/pci1069,b166@1/scsi@0 3.  Un-P1-T13 /pci@80000002000000f/pci@2,2/pci1069,b166@1/scsi@1 4.  None 5.  List all devices -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    Then, you must select each adapter individually to see the bootable devices that are attached to it. If no bootable device is attached to the adapter, an error message is displayed. The following is an example of this menu for the first adapter in the previous example. Version EM310_024 SMS 1.6 (c)  Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2005 All rights reserved. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Select    Device Device    Current    Device  Number    Position   Name 1           1       SCSI 73407 MB Harddisk Un-P1-T14 /pci@80000002000000d/pci@2/                      pci1069,b166@1/scsi@0 2.          None -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    When you select a device type, you can view detailed information about the device or set the device location in the boot list from the Select Task menu. (Note that only bootable disks are listed.) The following is an example of the menu for a hard disk.  Select Task SCSI 36401 MB Harddisk Un-P1-T14 /pci@80000002000000d/pci@2/pci1069,b166@1/scsi@0  1.  Information  2.  Set Boot Sequence: Configure as 1st Boot Device --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen           X = eXit System Management Services --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _     Selecting  displays a menu similar to the following for a hard disk.  Device Information     /pci@8000000200000dd/pci@2/pci1069,b166@1/scsi@1/sd@5,0                    :  (Bootable) DEVICE             : SCSI 73407 MB Harddisk Un-P1-T14 /pci@80000002000000d/pci@2/                      pci1069,b166@1/scsi@0 NAME               : sd DEVICE-TYPE        : block Parent Information IBM,FW-ADAPTER-NAME: Ultra-320 NAME               : scsi DEVICE-TYPE        : scsi-2 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen           X = eXit System Management Services --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _     Select the  to display the current setting of the customized boot list.  An example of this menu, with one device in the boot list, follows.  Current Boot Sequence 1. SCSI 73407 MB Harddisk Un-P1-T14 /pci@80000002000000d/pci@2/pci1069,b166@1/scsi@0 2. None 3. None 4. None 5. None ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen              X = eXit System Management Services ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _        Select the  option to restore the boot list to the default boot list. The default boot list varies depending on the devices that are installed in the system. The default boot list is as follows:Primary diskette drive (if installed) Optical drive (if installed) Tape drive (if installed) Hard disk drive (if installed) Network adapter Parent topic:     |      
 Multiboot startup The multiboot startup flag, if enabled, stops the system at the SMS menus every time the system starts. It allows you to start the system from another device. Parent topic:     |      
 SAN zoning support By using the storage area network (SAN) zoning option, you can perform SAN zoning for all Fibre Channel adapters, which includes the virtual Fibre Channel adapters that are assigned to the partition being booted.  When an adapter is selected, the selected adapter is opened and remains open during the zoning activity, which ensures that the switch can determine the worldwide port number and worldwide node name of the adapter. Select the  option. A menu similar to the following example is displayed.  PowerPC Firmware  Version ZL740_052  SMS 1.7 (c) Copyright IBM Corp. 2000,2008 All rights reserved.  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Select Media Adapter   1.  U78AA.001.WIH0029-P1-C7-T1    /pci@80000002000000d/fibre-channel@0 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Navigation keys: M = return to main menu ESC key = return to previous screen          X = eXit System Management Services -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Type the number of the menu item and press Enter or Select a Navigation key: _    When an adapter is selected, a menu similar to the following example is displayed.    .---------------------------------------------------------------------.    |  The selected adapter has been opened.                                |    |  Zoning of attached disks may now be possible.                        |    |  Press any key to close the adapter and return to the previous menu.  |    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------' Parent topic:     |      
 Exiting system management services After you finish using the SMS menus, type x (for exit) to boot your system. Parent topic:     |      
 Installing the Integrated Virtualization Manager Install the Virtual I/O Server management partition on an IBM Power System server. Then, connect to the Integrated Virtualization Manager Web-based interface. When you install the  in an environment where no  () is present, the  automatically creates a management partition whose interface is the . When you install the  on  blade server with Power Architecture® technology, the  automatically creates a management partition whose interface is the . After you install the  (), you need to accept the license agreement, check for updates, configure the TCP/IP connection. Learn how to connect to the Web-based system management interface for the . Learn how to connect to the  command-line interface, which allows you to use commands for the . Parent topic:     |      
 Connecting to the  Web-based interface Learn how to connect to the Web-based system management interface for the . You must know the IP address that is assigned to the . To connect to the Web-based interface for the , perform the following:  For example, enter https://123.456.7.890 in your Web browser, where 123.456.7.890 is the IP address assigned to the . The Welcome window is displayed.  The  interface is displayed. For information about the Web-based interface navigation, see the online help for the . Parent topic:     |      
 Connecting to the  command-line interface Learn how to connect to the  command-line interface, which allows you to use commands for the . Connect to the  command-line interface by using one of the following methods:Open a virtual terminal session to the management partition Telnet You can use Telnet to connect to the command-line interface. Telnet does not provide a secure connection to the . Therefore, use Telnet only if the Ethernet adapter that you have configured to access the management partition is physically isolated from networks that are not secure. OpenSSL or Portable OpenSSH You can use OpenSSL or Portable SSH to securely connect to the  from a remote location.  Parent topic:     |      
 Opening a virtual terminal session for a logical partition You can use the virtual terminal on the  to connect to a logical partition. Before you start, ensure that the  is at version 1.5 or later. To update the , see . You cannot use the  to open a virtual terminal for  logical partitions. See  for more information. To open a virtual terminal session, complete the following steps in the :  The View/Modify Partitions page is displayed.    A virtual terminal window displays. Because the applet has a digital signature, your browser might display a security warning and ask you to verify that you want to run the applet.  A terminal session starts for the logical partition Parent topic:     |      
 Viewing and updating the code level of the  management partition You can view and update the current code level of the  management partition. To update the management partition, complete the following steps: Related tasks:    |      
 Updating the  You can update the code level of the management partition and the 's firmware microcode using the .  To update the code level of the management partition or the 's firmware microcode, complete one of the following procedures:  For instructions, see .  For instructions, see Updating the 's firmware and device microcode through the  with an Internet connection in the topic collection for your server.  For instructions, see Updating the 's firmware and device microcode through the  without an Internet connection in the topic collection for your server. Find instructions for migrating the  from a DVD device when using the  (IVM) to manage your  and client logical partitions. Learn how to use the  (IVM) to generate a microcode survey of the managed system and to download and upgrade microcode when you have an Internet connection from your system. Learn how to use the  (IVM) to update the Virtual I/O Server's firmware and device microcode when you do not have an Internet connection from the managed system. Parent topic:     |      
 Migrating the Virtual I/O Server from DVD Find instructions for migrating the  from a DVD device when using the  (IVM) to manage your  and client logical partitions. Before you start, ensure that the following statements are true:A DVD optical device is assigned to the  logical partition. The  migration installation media is required. The  migration installation media is separate from the  installation media.  The  is currently at version 1.3, or later. The rootvg volume group has been assigned to the . The partition profile data for the management partition and its clients is backed up before you back up the . Use the  command or see  to save the partition configuration data to a safe location.   The IVM configuration in  2.1 is not backward compatible. To revert to an earlier version of the , you need to restore the partition configuration data from the backup file. The mksysb image has been saved to a safe location.  To migrate the Virtual I/O Server from a DVD, follow these steps:        You can also select  and select the device number from a list and press Enter.    You can also verify the installation and system settings by typing 2 to select .  You are not required to change the installation settings to select the migration installation method. If a previous version of the operating system exists, the installation method defaults to migration.  After the migration is complete, the  logical partition is restarted to its preserved configuration before the migration installation. It is recommended that you perform the following tasks:Verify that migration was successful by checking results of the  command and running the  command. It should indicate the ioslevel is now $ ioslevel 1.2.1.0. Restart previously running daemons and agents.Log on to the  as padmin user. Complete the following command: $ motd -overwrite "<enter previous banner message>" Start any previously running daemons, such as FTP and Telnet. Start any previously running agents, such as ituam.  Check for updates to the . For instructions, see .  The  migration media is separate from the  installation media. Do not use the installation media for updates after you perform a migration. It does not contain updates and you will lose your current configuration. Apply updates only by using the instructions from the  support site. Parent topic:     |      
 Backing up and restoring partition data Use the  to back up or restore the partition configuration information about your managed system. You can download an existing backup of the partition configuration, generate a new backup, upload a saved backup, or restore the existing backup. To back up or restore partition data, complete the following steps:  The Backup/Restore page is displayed, which includes the  tab, the  tab, . You can use the  version 1.5.1.1 to back up and restore virtual optical media files and files in your user  directory. For more information, see  and . Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
 Backing up virtual media and user files to tape Use the  to back up files in your user  directory and virtual media files from your managed system to tape.  You must have a tape device mounted on the managed system to complete this task. To back up user files or virtual media files to tape, complete the following steps:  The Backup/Restore page is displayed.  The  directory is listed as a single entry. Click  to have the table list all the files within the directory for individual selection. Click  to have the table list only the  directory.  By selecting the directory entry you can back up all the files in the directory by default.    updates the page by replacing the  table with an informational message that contains the command that you use to back up the selected files. You also can use  to restore files in your user  directory and virtual media files from tape. For more information see . Parent topic:     |      
 Restoring virtual media and user files from tape Use the  to restore files in your user  directory and virtual media files from tape to your managed system.  You must have a tape device mounted on the managed system to complete this task. To restore user files or virtual media files from tape, complete the following steps:  The Backup/Restore page is displayed.  When the process finishes reading the tape, you can view the list of files in the  table.    updates the page by replacing the  table with an informational message that contains the command that you need to run to restore the selected files.  The command only restores files to those directories to which your user ID has write-access authority. If you have selected to restore a file to a directory to which you do not have such authority, the command cannot restore that particular file. You also can use  to back up files in your user  directory and virtual media files on the managed system to tape. For more information see . Parent topic:     |      
 Troubleshooting the Integrated Virtualization Manager Use service-management tasks to maintain and troubleshoot the Integrated Virtualization Manager. Use the service management tasks to maintain your managed system so that it is running and up to date. After you activate the Electronic Service Agent™ Version 6 for , you can use it to aid in service management for your system. Use the  to back up or restore the partition configuration information about your managed system. You can download an existing backup of the partition configuration, generate a new backup, upload a saved backup, or restore the existing backup. Use the  to back up files in your user  directory and virtual media files from your managed system to tape.  Use the  to restore files in your user  directory and virtual media files from tape to your managed system.  View the application log entries on your managed system. Application logs are files that contain events and errors generated by the . Use the  to view the properties of the application log entries on your managed system. View and monitor the most recent 40 tasks that are running on the . Use the  to list the devices on your managed system, including device name, status, type of device, and physical location code. When you restart the management partition, sometimes virtual optical device settings for  client partitions can be lost. Parent topic:     |      
 Activating the Electronic Service Agent on the  After you activate the Electronic Service Agent™ Version 6 for , you can use it to aid in service management for your system. The Electronic Service Agent monitors and collects hardware problem information on the managed system, which the agent can send to the appropriate support personnel. The agent also can collect more detailed information about the managed system that might be useful to support personnel when diagnosing problems. This detailed information includes hardware, software, and system configuration data, as well as performance management data.You must activate the Electronic Service Agent before the agent can monitor and collect hardware problem information, which the agent can send to the appropriate  support personnel.  To activate the agent, complete the following steps:    If the Electronic Service Agent is handling a problem, you can use the  task to view the service request number for the problem. The service request number is displayed in the ESA Service Request column of the Selected Serviceable Events table. For more detailed information about using the Electronic Service Agent for service management, see the  documentation in the IBM Systems Information Center (http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/systems/topic/eicbd/eicbdkickoff.html). Parent topic:  Related information:    |      
 Viewing application logs View the application log entries on your managed system. Application logs are files that contain events and errors generated by the . To view the application logs, do the following:  The Application Logs panel is displayed. Parent topic:     |      
 Viewing application log properties Use the  to view the properties of the application log entries on your managed system. To view the properties of the application logs, do the following:  The Application Logs panel is displayed.  The  dialog box is displayed.  The Application Logs panel is displayed. For more information about the specific properties of the application logs, see the online help (). Parent topic:     |      
 Monitoring tasks View and monitor the most recent 40 tasks that are running on the . To view the properties of the tasks, do the following:  The Monitor Tasks panel is displayed.  The Task Properties dialog box is displayed.  The Monitor Tasks panel is displayed. Parent topic:     |      
 Viewing hardware inventory Use the  to list the devices on your managed system, including device name, status, type of device, and physical location code. To list the devices on your managed system, do the following:  The Hardware Inventory panel is displayed, which includes a list of hardware devices.  This list includes any device with a device name, including both physical devices and virtual devices. Using this page is equivalent to using the  command in the command-line interface.  Using this task is equivalent to using the  command, and the task refreshes the contents of the Hardware Inventory table. Parent topic:  Related reference:    |      
 lsdev command PurposeDisplays  devices and their characteristics. Syntax To list devices: lsdev [  DeviceType... ]  [  ] [  FieldName... ] [  Delimiter ] [ State ] To display information about a specific device: lsdev {  DeviceName |  PhysicalLocationCode } [  ] [  FieldName... ] [  Delimiter ]   lsdev {  DeviceName |  PhysicalLocationCode } [  [ Attribute ] |  Attribute |  |  | ]   lsdev    lsdev    Description The lsdev command displays information about devices in the . If no flags are specified, a list of all devices, both physical and virtual, in the  is displayed. To list devices, both physical and virtual, of a specific type use the -type DeviceType flag. Use the -virtual flag to list only virtual devices. Combining both the -type and -virtual flags will list the virtual devices of the specified type. To display information about a specific device, use the -dev DeviceName or -plc PhysicalLocationCode. Use either the -child, -parent, -attr, -range, -slot, or -vpd flag to specify what type of information is displayed. If none of these flags are used, the name, status, and description of the device will be displayed. Using the -vpd flag, without specifying a device, displays platform-specific information for all devices. If the -fmt Delimiter flag is specified the lsdev command returns all output in a delimiter separated format. The -state State flag limits the output to devices in the indicated state. The -slots flag produces a list of I/O slot information for built-in adapters that are not hot-pluggable but can have dynamic LPAR operations performed on them. The lsdev output will be truncated to 80 characters per line, unless the -fmt flag is used. If the -fmt flag is used, the output lines will not be truncated and line wrap may occur, based on what the terminal window line length is set to.   Flags Flag name Description -attr [Attribute ] Displays information about attributes of a given device.  If an attribute is specified, its current value is displayed.  If no attribute is specified, the following information is displayed about all attributes for the give device: attribute Attribute name value Current value of the attribute description Description of the attribute user Whether attribute can be set by the user (TRUE/FALSE) -child Displays the name, status, physical location code, and description for each child of the specified device (-dev DeviceName or -plc PhysicalLocationCode). -dev DeviceName Specifies the device logical name for the device for which information is listed. This flag cannot be used with the -plc flag.  -field FieldName Specifies the list of fields to be displayed.  The following fields are supported: name Device name status Device status physloc Physical location code description Description of the device parent   The -field flag cannot be combined with the -parent, -attr, -range, -slot, or -vpd flags. -fmt Delimiter Specifies a delimiter character to separate output fields. -parent Displays the name, status, physical location code, and description of the parent device of the given device (-dev DeviceName or -plc PhysicalLocationCode). -plc PhysicalLocationCode Specifies the device physical location code for the device for which information is listed. This flag cannot be used with the -dev flag. -range Attribute Displays the allowed values for the specified attribute. -slot Displays the slot, description, and device name of the specified device (-dev DeviceName or -plc PhysicalLocationCode). The device must be in a PCI hot swappable slot. -slots Displays a list of I/O slot information for built-in adapters that are not hot-pluggable but can have dynamic LPAR operations performed on them. -State State Limits the output to devices in the specified state.  The following states are supported: 0, defined  Server Virtual Adapter. 1, available  Server Virtual Adapter Physical Location Code 2, stopped Client Partition ID -type DeviceType Specifies the device type.  This flag can be used to restrict output to devices in the specified types. Both physical and virtual devices are listed. Supported types are as follows: adapter Lists adapters disk Lists disks ent4ip Lists all adapters over which interface can be configured. ent4sea Lists all physical Ethernet adapters and Etherchannel adapters available for creating a shared Ethernet adapter lv Lists logical volumes and volume groups optical Lists optical devices (cdrom/dvdrom) sea Lists all shared Ethernet adapters over which the interface can be configured. tape Lists tape devices tape4vtd Lists tape devices available for creating virtual target devices tty Lists tty devices usb_disk Lists USB disks vent4sea Lists all virtual Ethernet adapters available for creating shared Ethernet adapter -virtual Restricts output to virtual devices only. -vpd Displays platform-specific information for all devices or for a single device when -dev DeviceName or -plc PhysicalLocationCode are specified.     Exit Status Value Description Return code Description 12 Specified logical volume belongs to the operating system. 13 Specified physical or logical volume is not valid physical or logical volume  See .   Examples To list all virtual adapters and display the name and status fields, type: lsdev -type adapter -virtual -field name status The system displays the following message: name    status vhost0  Available vhost1  Available vhost2  Available ent6    Available ent7    Available ent8    Available ent9    Available To list all devices of type disk and display the name and physical location fields, type: lsdev -type disk -field name physloc The system displays the following message: name     physloc hdisk0   U9111.520.10004BA-T15-L5-L0 hdisk1   U9111.520.10004BA-T15-L8-L0 hdisk2   U9111.520.10004BA-T16-L5-L0 hdisk3   U9111.520.10004BA-T16-L8-L0 hdisk4   UTMP0.02E.00004BA-P1-C4-T1-L8-L0 hdisk5   UTMP0.02E.00004BA-P1-C4-T2-L8-L0 hdisk6   UTMP0.02F.00004BA-P1-C8-T2-L8-L0 hdisk7   UTMP0.02F.00004BA-P1-C4-T2-L8-L0 hdisk8   UTMP0.02F.00004BA-P1-C4-T2-L11-L0 vtscsi0  U9111.520.10004BA-V1-C2-L1 vtscsi1  U9111.520.10004BA-V1-C3-L1 vtscsi2  U9111.520.10004BA-V1-C3-L2 vtscsi3  U9111.520.10004BA-V1-C4-L1 vtscsi4  U9111.520.10004BA-V1-C4-L2 vtscsi5  U9111.520.10004BA-V1-C5-L1 To display the parent of a devices, type: lsdev -dev hdisk0 -parent The system displays the following message: parent scsi0    To display all I/O slots that are not hot-pluggable but can have DLPAR operations performed on them, type:     lsdev -slots The system displays the following message: U787A.001.DNZ00Y1-P1-C1  Logical I/O Slot  pci4 sisscsia0    U787A.001.DNZ00Y1-P1-T5  Logical I/O Slot  pci3 ent0 ent1    U787A.001.DNZ00Y1-P1-T7  Logical I/O Slot  pci2 usbhc0 usbhc1    U9111.520.10DFD8C-V2-C0  Virtual I/O Slot  vsa0    U9111.520.10DFD8C-V2-C2  Virtual I/O Slot  vhost0    U9111.520.10DFD8C-V2-C4  Virtual I/O Slot  Unknown To list all devices that are of the universal serial bus (USB) disk type, type the following command:lsdev -type usb_disk The system displays the following message: name         status       description	 usbms0       Available    USB Mass Storage usbms1       Available    USB Mass Storage vtusbdd0     Available    Virtual Target Device - USB Disk To list all virtual devices that are of the universal serial bus (USB) disk type, type the following command:lsdev -type usb_disk -virtual The system displays the following message: name        status        description	 vtusbdd0    Available     Virtual Target Device - USB Disk   Related InformationThe  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
  and  commands listed alphabetically This topic contains links to information about the  and  commands, including syntax statements, flag descriptions, and usage examples. Commands are listed alphabetically. Read about new or significantly changed information in  () since the previous update of this topic collection. Parent topic:          
 What's new in  Read about new or significantly changed information in  () since the previous update of this topic collection. April 2014Updated the following topics: October 2013Added the following topics to support the  shared storage pool feature. Updated the  topic with naming limits for failure group. Updated the following topics to support the shared storage pool features in the  version 2.2.3.0 Updated the following topics: October 2012Updated the  topic with a new return code. Added the  topic. Added the  topic to support the  monitoring. Updated the following topics to support the shared storage pool version 3 features in the  version 2.2.2.0: Updated the following topics: May 2012Updated the following topics:  December 2011Added the  topic, which has the information about creating a cluster that consists of one or more  ( ) partitions that are connected to the shared storage pool (SSP) and that have access to distributed storage on the  version 2.2.1.3, or later. Updated the , , , , , , and  topics with the information about creating a cluster of one or more VIOS partitions connected to the SSP and that have access to distributed storage on the  ( ) version 2.2.1.3, or later.  October 2011Added the following new commands:  Updated the following commands:  May 2011Added the new command , which removes any storage pool or cluster signatures that are on the physical volume. Updated the following commands:  December 2010Updated the following topic to include the IBM® License Metric Tool metric agent information: Added a new command , which manages the editions on Virtual I/O Server.  Added the following new commands as a part of the Virtual I/O Server (version 2.2 or later): Updated the following new commands as a part of the Virtual I/O Server (version 2.2 or later): September 2010Added the following new commands as a part of the functional implementation of role-based access control (RBAC) on the Virtual I/O Server:  Updated the  as a part of Peer-to-Peer Remote Copy (PPRC) VIOS support. March 2010Added information for  servers that contain the  processor. Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Related information:         
  and  commands This topic collection includes command reference information for the  and the . Read about new or significantly changed information in  () since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF of the . This topic contains links to information about the  and  commands, including syntax statements, flag descriptions, and usage examples. Commands are listed alphabetically. This topic contains links to information about the  and  commands, including syntax statements, flag descriptions, and usage examples. Commands are listed by category.         
  and  commands listed by category This topic contains links to information about the  and  commands, including syntax statements, flag descriptions, and usage examples. Commands are listed by category. Commands related to configuring and managing devices for the . Commands related to installing the . Commands related to configuring, starting, and stopping the IBM® Systems Director agent for the . Commands related to configuring, starting, and stopping the IBM Tivoli® Monitoring agent for the . Commands related to configuring, starting, and stopping the IBM Tivoli Storage agent for the . Commands related to configuring, starting, and stopping the IBM Tivoli Usage and Accounting Manager agent for the . Commands related to configuring, starting, and stopping the IBM TotalStorage Productivity Center agent for the . Commands related to configuring and managing the . Commands related to configuring and managing logical volumes for the . Commands related to maintaining the . Commands related to configuring and managing networking technologies, like , Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), and TCP/IP for the . Commands related to managing physical volumes for the . Commands related to the runtime expert for the  Commands related to managing security for the . Commands related to configuring and managing shared storage pools for the . Commands related to shells for the . Commands related to configuring and managing storage pools for the . Commands related to managing users for the . Commands related to configuring and managing the virtual media repository for the . Commands related to opening and closing a virtual terminal for a client logical partition from the . Commands related to configuring and managing volume groups for the . Commands related to the workload manager for the . Parent topic:          
 Device commands Commands related to configuring and managing devices for the . Parent topic:          
 cfgdev command Purpose Configures devices in the .   Syntax cfgdev [  Name ]   Description The cfgdev command configures devices. If there are any devices detected that have no device software installed when configuring devices, the cfgdev command returns a warning message with the name or a list of possible names for the device package that must be installed. If the specific name of the device package is determined, it is displayed as the only package name, on a line below the warning message. If the specific name cannot be determined, a colon-separated list of possible package names is displayed on a single line. A package name or list of possible package names is displayed for each of the devices, if more than one device is detected without its device software.  The system displays the following warning message when devices without their device software are detected: cfgdev: 0514-621 WARNING: The following device packages are         required for device support but are not currently          installed. devices.pci.22100020 devices.pci.14101800 devices.pci.scsi:devices.pci.00100300:devices.pci.NCR.53C825  In this example, two devices were found that had missing software, and the cfgdev command displayed the names of the device packages that must be installed. A third device that also has missing software was found, but in this case, the cfgdev command displays several possible device package names.   To protect the Configuration database, the cfgdev command is not interruptible. Stopping this command before execution is complete could result in a corrupted database.   Flags Flag name Description -dev Name Specifies the named device to configure along with its children.   Exit Status See .   Examples To configure detected devices attached to the scsi0 adapter, type: cfgdev -dev scsi0     Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 chdev command Purpose Changes the characteristics of a device.   Syntax chdev   Name [ ]  Attribute=Value... [] [] chdev  Udid [ ]  Attribute=Value... [] []   Description The chdev command changes the characteristics of the device specified with the given device logical name (the -dev Name flag).  Some changes may not be allowed when the device is in the Available state.  When the -perm flag is not specified, the chdev command applies the changes to the device and updates the database to reflect the changes. If the -perm flag is specified, only the database is updated to reflect the changes, and the device itself is left unchanged. This is useful in cases where a device cannot be changed because it is in use; in which case, the changes can be made to the database with the -perm flag, and the changes will be applied to the device when the system is restarted. Not all devices support the -perm flag.    To protect the Configuration database, the chdev command is not interruptible. To stop this command before execution is complete could result in a corrupted database.  The lldpsvc attribute is added to the shared Ethernet adapter (SEA) device for an automated virtual network port configuration and management in the  () Version 7 Release 7.7.0, or later. The lldpsvc attribute activates the virtual server network (VSN) capability on the SEA when you set the attribute to yes. The VSN capability can be enabled on the . The default value of the lldpsvc attribute is no. This attribute must be set to no before you remove the SEA. Flags Flag name Description -attr Attribute=Value Specifies the device attribute value pairs used for changing specific attribute values. The Attribute=Value parameter can use one attribute value pair or multiple attribute value pairs for one -attr flag. If you use an -attr flag with multiple attribute value pairs, the list of pairs must be separated by spaces. For example, entering -attr Attribute=Value lists one attribute value pair per flag, while entering -attr Attribute1=Value1 Attribute2=Value2 lists more than one attribute value pair. -dev Name Specifies the device logical name, indicated by the Name parameter, whose characteristics are to be changed. -force  Forcefully attempts to change the device attribute. Currently supports network interface and inet0 family. -perm Changes the characteristics of the device permanently without actually changing the device. This is useful for devices that cannot be made unavailable and cannot be changed while in the available state.  By restarting the system, the changes will be applied to the device. Not all devices support the -perm flag. -restoreroute Restores routes. -udid Specifies the unique device identifier (UDID).  You cannot change attributes of the interface or the inet0 family that is used for the cluster communication. You can change the attributes by using the force option. However, this can adversely affect the membership of the cluster.   Exit StatusSee .   Examples To change the retention instructions of the 4mm SCSI tape drive rmt0 so that the drive does not move the tape to the beginning, then to the end, and then back to the beginning each time a tape is inserted or the drive is powered on, type the command as follows: chdev -dev rmt0 -attr ret=no    To change the SCSI ID of the available SCSI adapter scsi0 that cannot be made unavailable or changed due to available disk drives connected to it, type: chdev  -dev scsi0 -attr id=6 -perm  To apply the change to the adapter, shutdown and restart the system.  To restore the route, type the command as follows:chdev  -restoreroute  If you attempt to change a route by typing the following command when it is in use for the cluster communication, the system displays an error message:chdev -dev inet0 -attr route="net,-hopcount,0,,0,9.126.85.2" The system displays the following error message with return code 78:The requested operation is not allowed because partition is a member of "test_cluster" cluster. Interface being used is "en0" ("inet" Family) for cluster communication.   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 chpath command PurposeChanges the operational status of paths to a MultiPath I/O (MPIO) capable device, or changes an attribute associated with a path to an MPIO capable device.   Syntax chpath  Name  OpStatus [  Parent ] [  Connection ]   chpath  Name  Parent [  Connection ] [  ]  Attribute=Value...   Description The chpath command either changes the operational status of paths to the specified device (the -dev Name flag) or it changes one, or more, attributes associated with a specific path to the specified device. The required syntax is slightly different depending upon the change being made.  The first syntax shown above changes the operational status of one or more paths to a specific device. The set of paths to change is obtained by taking the set of paths which match the following criteria: The target device matches the specified device. The parent device matches the specified parent (-pdev Parent), if a parent is specified. The connection matches the specified connection (-conn Connection), if a connection is specified. The path status is PATH_AVAILABLE  The operational status of a path refers to the usage of the path as part of MPIO path selection. The value of enable indicates that the path is to be used while disable indicates that the path is not to be used. It should be noted that setting a path to disable impacts future I/O, not I/O already in progress. As such, a path can be disabled, but still have outstanding I/O until such time that all of the I/O that was already in progress completes. As such, if -op disable is specified for a path and I/O is outstanding on the path, this fact will be displayed.  Disabling a path affects path selection at the device driver level. The path_status of the path is not changed in the device configuration database. The lspath command must be used to see current operational status of a path.  The second syntax shown above changes one or more path specific attributes associated with a particular path to a particular device. Note that multiple attributes can be changed in a single invocation of the chpath command; but all of the attributes must be associated with a single path. In other words, you cannot change attributes across multiple paths in a single invocation of the chpath command. To change attributes across multiple paths, separate invocations of chpath are required; one for each of the paths that are to be changed.   Flags Flag name Description -attr Attribute=Value Identifies the attribute to change as well as the new value for the attribute. The Attribute is the name of a path specific attribute. The Value is the value which is to replace the current value for the Attribute.  The Attribute=Value parameter can use one attribute value pair or multiple attribute value pairs for one -attr flag. If you use an -attr flag with multiple attribute value pairs, the list of pairs must be enclosed in quotation marks with spaces between the pairs. For example, entering -attr Attribute=Value lists one attribute value pair per flag, while entering -attr 'Attribute1=Value1 Attribute2=Value2' lists more than one attribute value pair. -dev Name Specifies the logical device name of the target device for the path(s) affected by the change. This flag is required in all cases. -pdev Parent Indicates the logical device name of the parent device to use in qualifying the paths to be changed. This flag is required when changing attributes, but is optional when change operational status. -perm Changes the path's characteristics without actually changing the path. The change takes effect on the path the next time the path is unconfigured and then configured (possibly on the next boot). -conn Connection Indicates the connection information to use in qualifying the paths to be changed. This flag is optional when changing operational status. When changing attributes, it is optional if the device has only one path to the indicated parent. If there are multiple paths from the parent to the device, then this flag is required to identify the specific path being changed. -op OpStatus Indicates the operational status to which the indicated paths should be changed. The operational status of a path is maintained at the device driver level. It determines if the path will be considered when performing path selection.The allowable values for this flag are:  enable  Mark the operational status as enabled for MPIO path selection. A path with this status will be considered for use when performing path selection. Note that enabling a path is the only way to recover a path from a failed condition.  disable  Mark the operational status as disabled for MPIO path selection. A path with this status will not be considered for use when performing path selection.  This flag is required when changing operational status. When used in conjunction with the -attr Attribute=Value flag, a usage error is generated.   Exit Status See .   ExamplesTo disable the paths between scsi0 and the hdisk1 disk device, enter: chpath -dev hdisk1 -pdev scsi0 -op disable The system displays a message similar to one of the following: paths disabled  or some paths disabled The first message indicates that all PATH_AVAILABLE paths from scsi0 to hdisk1 have been successfully enabled. The second message indicates that only some of the PATH_AVAILABLE paths from scsi0 to hdisk1 have been successfully disabled.   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 cpvdi command Purpose Copies a block device.   Syntax cpvdi  input_disk_image   output_disk_image [ input_storage_pool] [ output_storage_pool] []    Description The cpvdi command copies a block device image, which can be either a logical or physical volume, a file-backed device, or a file on another existing disk.  The parameters of the -src and -dst flags should be fully qualified names when specifying a file or device. Specifying the -progress flag prints a number sign (#) on the stderr for each block (1 M) of data copied on to the destination.  The output_disk_image device that you specify with the -dst flag cannot be a physical volume that is assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition).   Flags Flag name Description -src input_disk_image 	 Specifies the input backing device.  The input backing device might either be a physical or logical volume or a file is located in the caller's home directory, any of its subdirectories or in the /mnt directory.  The root user will not have any file location restrictions.       -dst output_disk_image Specifies the output backing device.  The output backing device might either be a physical or logical volume or a file is located in the caller's home directory, any of its subdirectories or in the /mnt directory.  The root user will not have any file location restrictions. -f  Overwrites the destination file. However, if the source or destination file is configured as backing device, it copies the file without unconfiguring the device or devices. If the -unconfigure flag is used in addition to the -f flag, then the -unconfigure flag takes priority. -progress Specifies the process status of the command will be expressed by printing a number sign (#) to stderr for every 1024 KB block of data that has been copied. -isp input_storage_pool Specifies the name of the storage pool where the input file-backed device exists. Required if the argument of the -src flag is a file-backed device. -osp output_storage_pool Specifies the name of the storage pool where the input file-backed device exists. Required if the argument of the -dst flag is a file-backed device. -overwrite  Overwrites the destination file, if the file is present. If you do not use this flag, an error message displays with a non-zero exit code. -unconfigure  Specifies to unconfigure the virtual target device (VTD) and reconfigure the VTD after a copy operation. Only use this flag if the source or destination file is configured as backing device. If you do not use this flag, an error message displays with a non-zero exit code.   Exit Status See .   Examples To copy a physical volume disk image to a file, type the following command: cpvdi -src hdisk1 -dst /home/my_home/image1_file   To copy a disk image that is a file to a physical volume, type the following command: cpvdi -src /home/my_home/image2_file -dst hdisk2 To output a hash symbol for every block of data that is copied, type the following command:  cpvdi -src hdisk1 -dst hdisk2 -progress To copy a file-backed device to another file-backed device, type the following command: cpvdi -src image1_file -dst image2_file -isp sp01 -osp sp02 To copy a file1 to file2, when file2 already exists, type the following command: cpvdi -src /home/padmin/file1 -dst /home/padmin/file2 -overwrite To copy a file-backed device fbd1 as fbd2, when fbd1 is configured as the backing device, type the following command: cpvdi -src fbd1 -dst fbd2 -isp sp01 -osp sp01 -f   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lsmap command Purpose Displays the mapping between physical, logical, and virtual devices.   Syntax lsmap { ServerVirtualAdapter |  PhysicalLocationCode |  } [  BackingDeviceType  |  | ] [ FieldName ... ] [ Delimiter ]   lsmap  {  PagingDevice |  } [  BackingDeviceType ] [  FieldName ... ] [  Delimiter ]  lsmap  ClusterName { |  HostName} [ FieldName...  ] [  Delimiter ] lsmap  { ServerVirtualAdapter |  } [  BackingDeviceType ] [ FieldName ... ] [ Delimiter ] lsmap  ClusterName { |   HostName} Description The  command displays the mapping between the virtual host adapters and the physical devices they are backed to. Given an adapter name (ServerVirtualAdapter) or physical location code (PhysicalLocationCode) of a server virtual adapter, the device name of each connected virtual target device (child devices), its logical unit number, backing device(s), and the backing devices physical location code is displayed. If the -net flag is specified the supplied device must be a virtual server Ethernet adapter.  The -fmt flag separates the output by a user-specified delimiter/character (delimiter). The delimiter can be any non-white space character. This format is provided to facilitate scripting. When a field has no value, it is reported as a "space/blank". For example, if vhost0 has a vtopt0 entry, with no backing device, and you type the command lsmap -vadapter vhost0 -fmt : -field VTD backing status, the system displays the following output vtopt0: :Available. The -type flag limits the types of backing devices displayed to the user-specified list, BackingDeviceType.  With the exception of the net type, any combination of device types may be specified.  The net type cannot be combined with any other type.  The -npiv flag displays the server binding information between the virtual fibre channel and the physical fibre channel adapter. It is also used to display client adapter attributes that are sent to the server adapter.  The -suspend flag displays the storage that is used by a suspended client. The  command can be used to remove suspended adapters. For more information, see the Examples section of the  command topic.   Flags Flag name Description -all Specifies that the mapping information must be displayed for all the virtual SCSI devices. If the -all flag is used with the -net flag, virtual Ethernet adapters are displayed. If the flag is used with the -npiv flag, virtual fibre channel adapters are displayed. If the flag is used with the -suspend flag, suspended virtual small computer system interface (VSCSI) adapters are displayed. -ams Displays paging space device information used in active memory sharing. -clustername Specifies the cluster name. -field FieldName Specifies the list of fields to display.  The order that you specify the attributes is not guaranteed to be the same order as they are returned. The attributes of the virtual host adapter (vhostX) are always listed before the attributes of the virtual target device (VTD). You can specify the order of the attributes within the virtual host adapter and the order of the attributes within the virtual target device. But, you cannot intermix the attributes of the virtual host adapter and the attributes of the virtual target device. For virtual SCSI (default), the following fields are supported:svsa Server virtual adapter name. physloc The physical location code of the server's virtual adapter. mirrored  The backing device is part of a Peer-to-Peer Remote Copy (PPRC) pair. clientid Client partition ID. vtd Virtual target device. lun Logical unit number.  backing  Backing device. bdphysloc The physical location code of the backing device. status Virtual target device status. For shared Ethernet adapter (-net flag), the following fields are supported:svea Virtual Ethernet adapter name.  physloc The physical location code of the server virtual adapter. sea  Shared Ethernet adapter. backing  Backing device. bdphysloc The physical location code of the backing device. status Shared Ethernet adapter status.   For NPIV (-npiv flag), the following fields are supported: name  Virtual fibre channel adapter name. physloc  The physical location code of the server virtual fibre channel adapter. clntid  Client logical partition ID. clntname  Client logical partition name. clntos  The operating system on the client logical partition. status Virtual fibre channel adapter status. fc  Physical fibre channel adapter name. fcphysloc The physical location of the fibre channel adapter. ports Physical fibre channel port number. flags Virtual fibre channel adapter flags. vfcclient Client virtual fibre channel adapter name. vfcclientdrc Client virtual fibre channel adapter used for Dynamic Reconfiguration Connection (DRC).    For active memory sharing (-ams flag), the following fields are supported:paging Paging virtual target device. streamid Stream ID. clientid Client logical partition ID. status Paging virtual target device status. redundancy Redundancy usage for the paging VIOS logical partitions. backing Backing device. poolid Memory pool ID. vasi  Virtual Asynchronous Services Interface (VASI) device name. pager Pager device name. vbsd Virtual Block Storage Device (VBSD) name. For suspended adapter (-suspend flag), the following fields are supported:svsa Suspended virtual adapter. state Suspended virtual adapter state. clientname Client name. streamid Stream ID. clientid Client partition ID. vtd Virtual target device. status Virtual target device status. lun Logical unit number.  backing Backing device. bdphysloc The physical location code of the backing device. mirrored The backing device is part of a peer-to-peer remote copy (PPRC) pair. For cluster (-clustername flag), the following fields are supported:Physloc The physical location code of the server virtual adapter. ClientID Client partition ID. VTD Client partition ID. LUN Logical unit number. Backing Backing device. -fmt delimiter Specifies a delimiter character to separate output fields. -hostname Specifies the host name or IP address of the VIOS partition. -net  Specifies the supplied device is a server virtual Ethernet adapter or if used with the -all flag all virtual Ethernet adapters and backing devices are displayed. -npiv Displays NPIV binding information. -plc PhysicalLocatoinCode Specifies the device physical location code of a server virtual adapter. This flag cannot be used with the -vadapter flag. -suspend Displays suspended virtual adapters. -type Specifies the type of devices to display.  The following fields are supported: disk  List physical backing devices. lv  List logical volume backing devices. optical  List optical backing devices. tape List tape backed devices. file List file backed devices. file_disk List file backed disk devices. file_opt List file backed optical devices. cl_disk List clustered backing devices. net List network devices. (This option cannot be used in combination with disk, lv, or optical) usb_disk Lists USB disks -vadapter VirtualServerAdapter Specifies the device name of a server virtual adapter. This flag cannot be used with the -plc flag.  -vtd PagingDevice Specifies the active memory sharing (AMS) paging device to be displayed.   Output Field Definitions Field Description SVSA  Server Virtual SCSI Adaper  Physloc Physical Location Code VTD  Virtual Target Device  LUN  Logical Unit Number SVEA Server Virtual Ethernet Adapter  SEA Shared Ethernet Adapter   Exit Status Return code Description 12 No SEAs associated with device 15 Specified device is not a server virtual SCSI adapter 16 Specified device is not a server virtual Ethernet adapter 17 Specified device in not in the AVAILABLE state 63 Specified device is not a virtual fibre channel adapter on a server logical partition.   ExamplesTo list all virtual target devices and backing devices mapped to the server virtual SCSI adapter vhost2, type the following command: lsmap -vadapter vhost2  The system displays the following message:  SVSA                 Physloc				Client Partition ID -------------        --------------------------------- ----------------------------- vhost2       	      U9111.520.10004BA-V1-C2           0x00000004 VTD                   vtscsi0 Status                Available LUN                   0x8100000000000000 Backing device        vtd0-1 Physloc VTD                   vtscsi1 LUN                   0x8200000000000000 Backing device        vtd0-2 Physloc VTD                   vtscsi2 Status                Available LUN                   0x8300000000000000 Backing device        hdisk2 Physloc               U787A.001.0397658-P1-T16-L5-L0 Mirrored              false To list the shared Ethernet adapter and backing device mapped to the virtual server Ethernet adapter ent4, type the following command: lsmap -vadapter ent4 -net The system displays the following message: SVEA   		           Physloc ------		           --------------------- ent4   		           P2-I1/E1 SEA                  ent5 Backing device       ent1 Status               Available Physloc              P2-I4/E1   To list the shared Ethernet adapter and backing device mapped to the virtual server Ethernet adapter ent3 in script format separated by a : (colon), type the following command: lsmap -vadapter ent3 -net -fmt ":" The system displays the following message: ent3:U8204.E8A.06A85B2-V13-C11-T1:ent10:ent1:Available:U7311.D20.06168AC-P1-C06-T1 To list all virtual target devices and backing devices, where the backing devices are of type disk or lv, type the following command: lsmap -all -type disk lv The system displays the following message:  SVSA                Physloc                           Client Partition ID -------------        --------------------------------- ----------------------------- vhost0               U9117.570.10D1B0E-V4-C3           0x00000000 VTD                   vtscsi0 Status                Available LUN                   0x8100000000000000 Backing device        hdisk0 Physloc               U7879.001.DQD0KN7-P1-T12-L3-L0 VTD                   vtscsi2 Status                Available LUN                   0x8200000000000000 Backing device        lv04 Physloc                  SVSA                Physloc                           Client Partition ID -------------        --------------------------------- ----------------------------- vhost1               U9117.570.10D1B0E-V4-C4           0x00000000 VTD                   vtscsi1 Status                Available LUN                   0x8100000000000000 Backing device        lv03 Physloc  To list NPIV mapping information, type the following command: lsmap -all -npiv The system displays the following message: Name           Physloc                   ClntID ClntName  ClntOS ======       ======================      ===== ========== ===== vfchost0       U8203.E4A.HV40026-V1-C12    1    HV-40026    AIX Status:NOT_LOGGED_IN FC name:fcs0                             FC loc code:U789C.001.0607088-P1-C5-T1 Ports logged in:3 Flags:1 <not_mapped, not_connected> VFC client name:                VFC client DRC: To list shared storage pool mappings along with other storage mappings for a particular virtual SCSI adapter, type the following command:lsmap -vadapter vhost0 The system displays the following output: SVSA                 Physloc                          Client Partition ID -------------        --------------------------------- ----------------------------- vhost0       	      U8233.E8B.HV32001-V2-C2            0x00000000 VTD                   vtscsi0	  Status                Available	  LUN                   0x8100000000000000	  Backing device        testLU1.b1277fffdd5f38acb365413b55e51638	  Physloc	 	  Mirrored              N/A	  VTD                   vtscsi1	  Status                Available	  LUN                   0x8200000000000000	  Backing device        testLU2.8f5a2c27dce01bf443383a01c7f723d0	  Physloc	 	  Mirrored              N/A	  VTD                   vtscsi2	  Status                Available	  LUN                   0x8300000000000000	  Backing device        testLU3.2cc8eadef6df0db3da76e21c79c7377f	  Physloc	 	  Mirrored              N/A	 VTD                   vtscsi3 Status                Available LUN                   0x8400000000000000 Backing device        hdisk3 Physloc               U787A.001.0397658-P1-T16-L5-L0 Mirrored              false VTD                   vtscsi4 Status                Available LUN                   0x8500000000000000 Backing device        data_lv Physloc                Mirrored              N/A To list all shared storage pool mappings, type the following command.lsmap -all -clustername newcluster The system displays the following output:Physloc                                                       Client Partition ID -----------------------------------------------------------------   ------------------------- U8233.E8B.HV32001-V2-C2                                             0x00000000 VTD                  vtscsi0 LUN                  0x8100000000000000 Backing device       testLU1.b1277fffdd5f38acb365413b55e51638 Physloc                                                       Client Partition ID -----------------------------------------------------------------   ------------------------- U8233.E8B.HV32001-V2-C2                                             0x00000000 VTD                  vtscsi1 LUN                  0x8200000000000000 Backing device       testLU2.8f5a2c27dce01bf443383a01c7f723d0 Physloc                                                       Client Partition ID -----------------------------------------------------------------   ------------------------- U8233.E8B.HV32001-V2-C2                                             0x00000000 VTD                  vtscsi2 LUN                  0x8300000000000000 Backing device       testLU3.2cc8eadef6df0db3da76e21c79c7377f Physloc                                                       Client Partition ID -----------------------------------------------------------------   ------------------------- U9179.MHB.10A9DAP-V4-C111                                           0x00000000 VTD                  vtscsi0 LUN                  0x8100000000000000 Backing device       testLU4.ad089db46c2dc3769e71bf7875607c6f Physloc                                                       Client Partition ID -----------------------------------------------------------------   ------------------------- U9179.MHB.10A9DAP-V1-C31                                            0x00000015 VTD                  vtscsi0 LUN                  0x8200000000000000 Backing device       testLU5.34cd008de649b8fde83bb16d395d48c9 Physloc                                                       Client Partition ID -----------------------------------------------------------------   ------------------------- U9179.MHB.10A9DAP-V3-C111                                           0x00000065 VTD                  vtscsi0 LUN                  0x8200000000000000 Backing device       testLU6.ad089db46c2dc3769e71bf7875607c6f To list all suspended adapters, type the following command:lsmap -all -suspend  The system displays the following output:SVSA       State       Client Name             Stream ID              Client Partition ID ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- susadpt0      suspended	   17*9117-MMB*10002EP     0xf70e4facfc46e9a0     0x00000017   VTD                  vtscsi0 Status               Defined LUN                  0xx8100000000000000 Backing device       hdisk5 Physloc              U789D.001.DQDWAXR-P1-C4-T1-W205600A0B86E4A5A-L5000000000000 Mirrored             false VTD                  vtscsi1 Status               Defined LUN                  0x8200000000000000 Backing device       hdisk6 Physloc              U789D.001.DQDWAXR-P1-C4-T1-W205600A0B86E4A5A-L6000000000000 Mirrored             false                                                                     Related InformationThe  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Shared storage pool commands Commands related to configuring and managing shared storage pools for the . Parent topic:          
 lsnports command Purpose Lists available ports that are capable of N_Port ID Virtualization (NPIV) and related information.   Syntax lsnports [  Delimiter ] [  Fieldname ]   Description The  command displays information for all the ports capable of NPIV. If you use the name of the adapter driver (for a particular physical port) in the vfcmap command, the map_port attribute is set for a virtual fibre channel adapter on the server logical partition. This attribute maps the virtual fibre channel adapter on the server logical partition to a physical fibre channel port.   Without a flag, information is displayed in a column. Specifying the -fmt flag formats the output with a specified delimiter. If no NPIV ports are in the Virtual I/O Server logical partition, the error code E_NO_NPIV_PORTS(62) is displayed.    Flags Flag name Description -fmt delimiter Specifies a delimiter character to separate output fields. -field Specifies a list of fields to be displayed. The following fields are supported: name Physical port name physloc  Physical port location code fabric  Fabric support tports  Total number of NPIV ports aports  Number of available NPIV ports swwpns Total number of target worldwide port names supported awwpns  Number of target worldwide port names available   Output Field Definitions Field Description name Physical port name physloc Physical port location code fabric Fabric support tports Total number of NPIV ports aports Number of available NPIV ports swwpns Total number of target worldwide port names supported awwpns Number of target worldwide port names available   Exit Status Return code Description 62 System does not have ports capable of NPIV.   ExamplesTo list all the NPIV-capable ports, type: lsnports The system displays the following message: Name     physloc                      fabric  tports  aports  swwpns  awwpns fcs0     U789D.001.DQDMLWV-P1-C1-T1   1       64      64      2048    2047  fcs1     U787A.001.DPM0WVZ-P1-C1-T2   1       63      62      504     496   To list all the NPIV-capable ports in script format separated by two colons (::), type: lsnports -fmt "::" The system displays the following message: fcs0::U789D.001.DQDMLWV-P1-C1-T1::1::64::64::2048::2047 fcs1::U787A.001.DPM0WVZ-P1-C1-T2::1::63::62::504::496 To list specific fields (name, swwpns, and awwpns) of all the NPIV-capable ports, type: lsnports -field name swwpns awwpns The system displays the following message: name    swwpns  awwpns fcs0    2048    2047   Related InformationThe  and  commands.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lspath command Purpose Displays information about paths to a MultiPath I/O (MPIO) capable device.   Syntax lspath [  DeviceName ] [  Parent ] [  Status ] [  Connection ] [  FieldName ... ] [  Delimiter ]  lspath  DeviceName   Parent [  Connection ]   [  Attribute... ] [  FieldName ... ] [  Delimiter ]  lspath  DeviceName   Parent [  Connection ]   Attribute [  FieldName ... ] [  Delimiter ]   Description The lspath command displays one of three types of information about paths to an MPIO capable device. It either displays the operational status for one or more paths to a single device, or it displays one or more attributes for a single path to a single MPIO capable device. The first syntax shown above displays the operational status for one or more paths to a particular MPIO capable device.  The second syntax displays one or more attributes for a single path to a particular MPIO capable device. Finally, the third syntax displays the possible range of values for an attribute for a single path to a particular MPIO capable device.   	  Displaying Path Status with the lspath Command 	When displaying path status, the set of paths to display is obtained by 	searching the device configuration database for paths that match the following 	criteria: 	The target device name matches the device specified with the -dev flag. If the -dev flag is not present, then 	the target device is not used in the criteria.  The parent device name matches the device specified with the -pdev flag. If the -pdev flag is not present, then 	parent is not used in the criteria.  The connection matches the connection specified with the -conn flag. If the -conn flag is not present, then 	connection is not used in the criteria. The path status matches status specified with the -status flag. If the -status flag is not present, the 	path status is not used in the criteria.  	If none of the -dev, -pdev, -conn, or -status flags are specified, 	then all paths known to the system are displayed.  	By default, this command will display the information in columnar form. 	When no flags are specified that qualify the paths to display, the format 	of the output is: 	status device  parent 	  	Possible values that can appear for the status column are: 	enabled  Indicates that the path is configured and operational. It will be considered 	when paths are selected for IO. disabled  Indicates that the path is configured, but not currently operational. 	It has been manually disabled and will not be considered when paths are selected 	for IO. failed  Indicates that the path is configured, but it has had IO failures that 	have rendered it unusable. It will not be considered when paths are selected 	for IO. defined Indicates that the path has not been configured into the device driver. missing  Indicates that the path was defined in a previous boot, but it was not 	detected in the most recent boot of the system.  detected  Indicates that the path was detected in the most recent boot of the 	system, but for some reason it was not configured. A path should only have 	this status during boot and so this status should never appear as a result 	of the lspath command.  	 Displaying Path Attributes with the lspath Command 	When displaying attributes for a path, the path must be fully qualified. 	Multiple attributes for a path can be displayed, but attributes belonging 	to multiple paths cannot be displayed in a single invocation of the lspath command. Therefore, in addition to the -lsattr, -dev, and -pdev flags, 	the -conn flags are required to uniquely identify a 	single path. For example: 	if only one path between a device and a specific parent, the -conn flag is not required if there are multiple paths between a device and a specific parent, the -conn flag is required  	Furthermore, the -status flag is not allowed.  	By default, this command will display the information in columnar form. 	attribute   value    description         user_settable  	 Flags Flag name Description -attr Attribute Identifies the specific attribute to list. The 'Attribute' is the name of a path specific attribute. When this flag is provided, only the identified attribute is displayed. Multiple instances of this flag may be used to list multiple attributes. If this flag is not specified at all, all attributes associated with the identified path will be listed.  -lsattr Displays the attribute names, current values, descriptions, and user-settable flag values for a specific path.  -dev Name Specifies the logical device name of the target device whose path information is to be displayed. -field FieldNames Specifies the list of fields to display. The following fields are supported: status  Status of the path name  Name of the device parent  Name of the parent device conn Path connection. -fmt Delimiter Specifies a delimiter character to separate output fields. -pdev Parent Indicates the logical device name of the parent device of the path(s) to be displayed.  -range Displays the legal values for an attribute name. The -range flag displays the list attribute values in a vertical column as follows: Value1 Value2 . . ValueN The -range flag displays the range attribute values as x...n(+i) where x is the start of the range, n is the end of the range, and i is the increment.  -status Status The -status Status flag indicates the status to use in qualifying the paths to be displayed. When displaying path information, the allowable values for this flag are: enabled Display paths that are enabled for MPIO path selection. disabled Display paths that are disabled from MPIO path selection. failed Display paths that are failed due to IO errors.  available Display paths whose path_status is PATH_AVAILABLE (that is, paths that are configured in the system, includes enabled, disabled, and failed paths). defined Display paths whose path_status is PATH_DEFINED. missing Display paths whose path_status is PATH_MISSING. -conn Connection Indicates the connection information to use in qualifying the paths to be displayed.    Exit Status Return code Description 1 Invalid status value.   Examples To display, without column headers, the set of paths whose operational status is disabled, enter: lspath -status disabled The system will display a message similar to the following:   disabled  hdisk1   scsi1  disabled  hdisk2   scsi1  disabled  hdisk23  scsi8  disabled  hdisk25  scsi8 To display the set of paths whose operational status is failed, enter:  lspath -status failed  The system will display a message similar to the following:    failed  hdisk1   scsi1  failed  hdisk2   scsi1  failed  hdisk23  scsi8  failed  hdisk25  scsi8 If the target device is a SCSI disk, to display all attributes for the path to parent  scsi0 at connection 5,0, use the command:  lspath -dev hdisk10 -pdev scsi0 -conn "5,0" -lsattr The system will display a message similar to the following:  weight     1      Order of path failover selection  true         Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 mkkrb5clnt command Purpose Configures a Kerberos client. Syntax To configure Kerberos against  Network Authentication Service only:  mkkrb5clnt   | [   KDC   Realm   Server   [  Admin ]   Domain [   ] [   Database ] [  ] [   ] [  ticket_lifetime ] [  renew_lifetime ] ] [  {ldapserver | ldapserver:port} ]  To configure Kerberos against non-kadmind services:  mkkrb5clnt -h | -c KDC -r Realm -s Server -d Domain [ -i Database ] [ -K ] [ -t ticket_lifetime ] [ -n renew_lifetime ]  [ -l {ldapserver | ldapserver:port} ] | -U Description This command configures the Kerberos client. The first part of the command reads realm name, KDC, VDB path, and domain name from the input and generates a krb5.conf file.  Item Description /etc/krb5/krb5.conf: Values for realm name, Kerberos admin server, and domain name are set as specified on the command line. Also updates the paths for default_keytab_name, kdc, and kadmin log files.  If DCE is not configured, this command creates a link to /etc/krb5/krb5.conf from /etc/krb5.conf.  The command also allows you to configure root as admin user, configure integrated Kerberos authentication, and configure  Kerberos as default authentication scheme.  For integrated login, the -i flag requires the name of the database being used. For LDAP, use the load module name that specifies LDAP. For local files, use the keyword files.  Item Description Standard Output Consists of information messages when the -h flag is used. Standard Error Consists of error messages when the command cannot complete successfully. Flags  Item Description -a Admin Specifies the principal name of the Kerberos server admin. -A Specifies root to be added as a Kerberos administrative user. -c KDC Specifies the KDC server. -d Domain Specifies the complete domain name for the Kerberos client. -D Specifies Kerberos against non-kadmind services. -h Specifies that the command is only to display the valid command syntax. -i Database Configures integrated Kerberos authentication. -K Specifies Kerberos to be configured as the default authentication scheme. -l ldapserver | ldapserver:port For servers, specifies the LDAP directory used to store the Network Authentication Service principal and policy information. For clients, specifies the LDAP directory server to use for Administration server and KDC discovery using LDAP. If the -l flag is used, then the KDC and server flags are optional. If the -l option is not used, the KDC and server flags must be specified. The port number can optionally be specified.  For clients and servers, the port number can optionally be specified. If the port number is not specified, the client connects to the default LDAP server port 389 or 636 for SSL connections.   Only the client configuration is updated. -n renew_lifetime Specifies the client-specific time to generate a renewable ticket if the server supports it. By default, the ticket is nonrenewable. The renew_lifetime parameter value is composed of four numeric values that are delimited by colons. -r Realm Specifies the full realm name for which the Kerberos client is to be configured. -s Server Specifies the fully qualified host name for Kerberos admin server. -t ticket_lifetime Specifies the client-specific ticket lifetime for received tickets if the server supports it. If you do not specify the flag, the server sets the ticket lifetime. The ticket_lifetime parameter value is composed of four numeric values that are delimited by colons. -T Specifies the flag to acquire server admin TGT based admin ticket. -U Undo the setup from the previous configuration command. Exit Status Failure of this command to execute successfully may result in incomplete client configuration.  Item Description 0 Indicates the successful completion of the command. 1 Indicates that an error occurred. Security A user with the  authorization is authorized to use this command. Examples To display the command syntax, enter the following command:   mkkrb5clnt -h To configure testbox.austin.ibm.com as a client to sundial.austin.ibm.com where KDC is also running on sundial.austin.ibm.com, enter the following command:   mkkrb5clnt -c sundial.austin.ibm.com -r UD3A.AUSTIN.IBM.COM \ -s sundial.austin.ibm.com -d austin.ibm.com To configure testbox.austin.ibm.com as the client, make root as the server admin, configure integrated login, configure  Kerberos as default authentication scheme, enter the following command:   mkkrb5clnt -c sundial.austin.ibm.com -r UD3A.AUSTIN.IBM.COM \ -s sundial.austin.ibm.com -d austin.ibm.com \ -A -i files -K -T To configure testbox.austin.ibm.com as the client against a non- machine, enter the following command: mkkrb5clnt -c non-aix.austin.ibm.com -r NON-AIX.AUSTIN.IBM.COM \ -s non-aix.austin.ibm.com -d austin.ibm.com –D To configure testbox.austin.ibm.com as the client against a non- machine with the ticket lifetime of 1 day, 2 hours, 3 minutes, and 4 seconds, and the renew lifetime of 5 days, 6 hours, 7 minutes, and 8 seconds, enter the following command: mkkrb5clnt -c non-aix.austin.ibm.com -r NON-AIX.AUSTIN.IBM.COM \ -s non-aix.austin.ibm.com -d austin.ibm.com –D \ -t 1:2:3:4 -n 5:6:7:8 Files  Item Description /usr/krb5/sbin Contains the mkkrb5clnt command. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 mkpath command Purpose Adds to the system another path to an MPIO capable device.   Syntax mkpath { [ -dev Name ] [  Parent ] [  Connection ] } [  ]   Description The mkpath command defines, and possibly configures, one or more paths to the target device (-dev Name). The paths are identified by a combination of the -dev Name, -pdev Parent, and -conn Connection flags. Both the target device and parent must be previously defined in the system to define a path. They both must be AVAILABLE to configure a path.  If the -def flag is specified, the mkpath command only defines the new path definition to the system. If the -def flag is not specified, the mkpath command attempts to define the path, if it does not already exist, before it attempts to configure the path. Configuring a path requires the path to already be defined and both the device and the parent device to already be configured.  The mkpath command displays a status message upon completion. It is possible for some paths to configure and others to fail.  Note that not all devices will be able to have paths manually defined by using the mkpath command. These limitations are due to the way that path information is stored for these devices. Fiber channel devices fall into this category.  The mkpath command provides status messages about the results of operation. Messages in one of the following formats will be generated: path [ available | defined ]  This message is displayed when mkpath is run on a single path. If the path is successfully configured the message path available is displayed. If the path is not successfully configured and there is no explicit error code returned by the method, the message path defined is displayed. paths available  This message is displayed if multiple paths were identified and all paths were successfully configured.  some paths available  This message is displayed if multiple paths were identified, but only some of them were successfully configured.  no paths processed  This message is generated if no paths were found matching the selection criteria.   Flags Flag name Description -conn Connection Indicates the connection information associated with the path to be added. This flag is required if the -def flag is specified. -def Defines a new path to a device by adding a path definition to the system. The new path will not automatically be configured when the -def flag is specified. Note that only one path may be defined at a time. The -conn and the -pdev flags are required when the -def flag is used. -dev Name Specifies the logical device name of the target device to which the path(s) are being added. The path(s) to be added are qualified by the -pdev and -conn flags. -pdev Parent Indicates the logical device name of the parent device associated with the path(s) to be added. This flag is required if the -def flag is specified.   Exit Status See .   Examples To define and configure an already defined path between scsi0 and the hdisk1 device at SCSI ID 5 and LUN 0 (connection 5,0), enter: mkpath -dev hdisk1 -pdev scsi0 -conn 5,0 The system displays the following message: path available   To configure an already defined path from fscsi0 to fiber channel disk hdisk1, type: mkpath -dev hdisk1 -pdev fscsi0 The system displays the following message: path available    To only add to the Customized Paths object class a path definition between scsi0 and the hdisk1 disk device at SCSI ID 5 and LUN 0, enter: mkpath -def -dev hdisk1 -pdev scsi0 -conn 5,0 The system displays the following message: path defined      Related InformationThe  command and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 mkvdev command Purpose Adds a virtual device to the system.   Syntax To create a virtual target device:  mkvdev [  ] {  TargetDevice |  TDPhysicalLocationCode } {  VirtualServerAdapter |  VSAPhysicalLocationCode}  [  DeviceName ]  To create a virtual target device for a file backed virtual optical device:  mkvdev   {  VirtualServerAdapter |  VSAPhysicalLocationCode }  [ DeviceName]  To create a virtual target device when the backup device is part of a Peer-to-Peer Remote Copy (PPRC) pair: mkvdev [  ] {  TargetDevice |  TDPhysicalLocationCode } {  VirtualServerAdapter |  VSAPhysicalLocationCode} {  mirrored=true } [  DeviceName ] To create a shared Ethernet adapter:  mkvdev [  TargetDevice  VirtualEthernetAdapter... DefaultVirtualEthernetAdapter   SEADefaultPVID [  Attribute=Value  [ Attribute=Value... ]] [ []]  The shared Ethernet adapter attributes, ha_mode and ctl_chan, must be specified together. The command fails if only one attribute is specified. These attributes are used to create a shared Ethernet adapter in a failover configuration.  To create an Link Aggregation adapter:  mkvdev TargetAdapter... [  Attribute=Value [ Attribute=Value... ] ] [   [ -interface TargetInterface ] ]  To create a VLAN Ethernet adapter:  mkvdev   TargetAdapter  TagID   Description The mkvdev command creates a virtual device.  The name of the virtual device is automatically generated and assigned unless the -dev DeviceName flag is specified, in which case DeviceName becomes the device name.  If the backup device is part of a PPRC pair, set the mirrored attribute to TRUE to create the virtual target device.  This allows a  PPRC secondary device to be exported to the client partition. If the -lnagg flag is specified, a Link Aggregation or IEEE 802.3 Link Aggregation (automatic Link Aggregation) device is created. To create an IEEE 802.3 Link Aggregation set the mode attribute to 8023ad. If the -sea flag is specified, a shared Ethernet adapter is created. The TargetDevice may be a Link Aggregation adapter (note, however, that the VirtualEthernetAdapter  may not be Link Aggregation adapters). The default virtual Ethernet adapter, DefaultVirtualEthernetAdapter, must also be included as one of the virtual Ethernet adapters, VirtualEthernetAdapter.    The -vlan flag is used to create a VLAN device and the -vdev flag creates a virtual target device which maps the VirtualServerAdapter to the TargetDevice.  If the backup device that is specified by the -vdev or -dplc flags is already in use, an error is returned unless the -f flag is also specified.   The mkvdev command also configures virtual optical devices, where the -vdev or -dplc flag specifies the physical optical device and the -vadapter or -aplc flag specifies the virtual SCSI adapter. If the specified optical device is already assigned to a virtual SCSI adapter, an error is returned unless the -f flag is also specified. If the -f flag is specified, the optical device will be removed from the virtual SCSI adapter it is currently assigned to before reassigning it to the new virtual SCSI adapter. When an additional disk drive that has a lower max_transfer_size than the current setting is added, and it is set as a virtual target device (processing mkvdev), the client cannot recognize this device until the VIOS is rebooted and the max_transfer_size is reestablished to the new setting. Because the max_transfer_size cannot be dynamically changed, the mkvdev  command checks the current max_transfer_size of the device being added. If it is lower, it posts a message stating that the VIOS must be rebooted before the client can see this device.   To protect the Configuration Database, the mkvdev command is not interruptible. Stopping this command before execution is complete could result in a corrupted database.   Flags Flag name Description -aplc VSAPhysicalLocationCode Specifies the virtual SCSI adapter using the physical location code -attr Attribute=Value Specifies the device attribute value pairs to be used instead of the defaults. The Attribute=Value variable can be used to specify one attribute value pair or multiple attribute value pairs for one -attr flag. If you use an -attr flag with multiple attribute value pairs, the list of pairs must be enclosed in quotation marks with a blank space between the pairs. For example, entering -attr Attribute=Value lists one attribute value pair per flag, while entering -attr 'Attribute1=Value1 Attribute2=Value2' lists more than one attribute value pair.  -auto Migrates and restores the Ethernet interface when you create a shared Ethernet adapter with the -migrate option. -default DefaultVirtualEthernetAdapter  Default virtual adapter to use for non-VLAN-tagged packets.  This flag maps to the shared Ethernet adapter device attribute pvid_adapter. -defaultid SEADefaultPVID  The SEADefaultPVID is the VID used for untagged frames.  All untagged packets are assigned the SEADefaultPVID value.   When a tagged frame is received by a port, the tag is used.  Otherwise if the frame is untagged, the value contained in the PVID is considered as a tag.  This flag maps to the shared Ethernet adapter device attribute pvid. -dev DeviceName By using the -dev flag, you can specify the name you want the device to be known by. If you do not use the -dev flag, a name will be automatically generated and assigned. Not all devices support user-supplied names. -dplc TDPhysicalLocationCode Specifies the physical device using the physical location code -f Force the physical volume specified to be used as a backup device, even if it's already associated with a virtual SCSI adapter. If the specified backup device is an optical device, -f forces the optical device to be removed from the virtual SCSI adapter to which it is currently assigned, before reassigning it to the new virtual SCSI adapter. The -f flag can also be used to force the mkvdev command to continue working when it fails, because the device is in use as a cluster device. The user must know every host to which the disk is visible and how it is used, before forcing the mkvdev command to continue working. -fbo Create a virtual optical device. -lnagg TargetAdapter... Creates a Link Aggregation device. -migrate Migrates the settings from the physical adapter interface to the shared Ethernet adapter interface. -sea TargetDevice  Creates a shared Ethernet adapter which maps VirtualEthernetAdapter  to the adapter TargetDevice.  TargetDevice can be a physical adapter or a Link Aggregation adapter. -tagid TagID Specifies the VLAN tag ID. -vadapter VirtualEthernetAdapter or VirtualServerAdapter Specifies the virtual server adapter or virtual Ethernet adapter the new device will be mapped to. If multiple virtual Ethernet adapters are specified, separate the adapter names with commas and no spaces.  -vdev TargetDevice  Creates a virtual device mapped to the physical/logical device TargetDevice and the virtual server adapter VirtualServerAdapter. The TargetDevice can be either a physical volume, logical volume, USB HD, or optical device. Physical volumes assigned to volume groups cannot be used as target devices. -vlan TargetAdapter Creates a Virtual Local Area Network device.    While you create the shared Ethernet adapter, -auto and -migrate options do not support the migration of an IPv6 stateless configuration.   Exit Status Return code Description 13 Specified physical or logical volume is not a valid. 21 Device is already in use. Use the -f flag to force assignment. 22 Logical volumes cannot be assigned as backup devices more than once.   Examples To create a virtual target device that maps the logical volume lv20 as a virtual disk for a client partition hosted by the vhost0 virtual server adapter, type the following command: mkvdev -vdev lv20 -vadapter vhost0 The system displays the following message: vtscsi0 available To create a virtual target device that maps the physical volume hdisk6 as a virtual disk for a client partition served by the vhost2 virtual server adapter, type the following command: mkvdev -vdev hdisk6 -vadapter vhost2 The system displays the following message: vtscsi1 available To create a virtual target device that maps physical tape device rmt0 as a virtual tape device for a client partition served by the vhost2 virtual server adapter, type the following command:   mkvdev -vdev rmt0 -vadapter vhost2 The system displays the following message: vttape0 available To create a shared Ethernet adapter that maps the physical Ethernet adapter ent4 as a virtual Ethernet adapter for the client partitions served by the virtual Ethernet adapters ent6, ent7, and ent9, using ent6 as the default adapter and 8 as the default ID, type the following command: mkvdev -sea ent4 -vadapter ent6 ent7 ent9 -default ent6 -defaultid 8 The system displays the following message: ent10 available To create a shared Ethernet adapter in failover configuration with the control channel adapter ent5, create the shared Ethernet adapter as shown in example 4, but specify additional attributes ha_mode and ctl_chan with -attr. For example: mkvdev -sea ent4 -vadapter ent6 -default ent6 -defaultid 1 -attr ha_mode=auto ctl_chan=ent5 To create an automatic Link Aggregation with primary adapters ent4 and ent5 and backup adapter ent6, type the following command: mkvdev -lnagg ent4 ent5 -attr backup_adapter=ent6 mode=8023ad The system displays the following message: ent10 available   To create a virtual target device that maps the physical volume hdisk6, which is part of a PPRC pair as a virtual disk for a client partition served by the vhost2 virtual server adapter, type the following command: mkvdev -vdev hdisk6 -vadapter vhost2 -attr mirrored=true To migrate and restore the Ethernet interface while you create a shared Ethernet adapter, type the command as follows:mkvdev -sea ent4 -vadapter ent6 -default ent6 -defaultid 1 -attr ha_mode=auto  ctl_chan=ent5 -migrate -auto   Related InformationThe  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 prepdev command Purpose Prepares a device to be assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition).   Syntax prepdev { -dev devicename }   Description The prepdev command prepares a device to be assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition). This command determines whether the device specified by the -dev flag is already assigned or used in the following manner:Assigned to a shared memory pool (being used as a paging device) Used as a backup device for virtual SCSI Used by a file system, logical volume, or volume group. If the device is already being used or assigned to a shared memory pool, you receive system output that tells you how to prepare the device to be used as a paging space device.   Flags Flag name Description -dev devicename Specifies the logical device to be used as a paging space device.  --help Displays the help text for this command and exit.    Exit Status See .   Example To verify that hdisk5 is ready to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition, type the following command: prepdev  -dev hdisk5   Related Information The  command and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 rmdev command Purpose Removes a device from the system.   Syntax rmdev {  |  } Name  [  ] [  ] [  ]   Description The rmdev command unconfigures and undefines the device specified with the device logical name. If you specify the -recursive flag, the rmdev command acts on any children of the device as well. By specifying the -ucfg flag the device will be unconfigured but not undefined.  Use the -pdev flag along with the parent device's logical name to delete all of the children devices. The children are deleted in the same recursive fashion as described above for the -recursive flag. The only difference is that the specified device itself is not deleted. Thus, the -recursive flag is redundant and need not be specified with the -pdev flag.   To protect the Configuration database, the rmdev command cannot be interrupted. Stopping this command before execution is complete could result in a corrupted database.   The device specified or the children of the device specified cannot be a physical or logical volume that is assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition).  You cannot remove the interface or inet0 that is used for the shared storage pool communication.   Flags Flag name Description -dev Name Specifies the logical device, indicated by the Name parameter. This flag may not be used with the -pdev flag. -pdev Name Specifies the parent logical device (indicated by the Name parameter whose children need to be removed. This flag may not be used with the -dev flag. -recursive Unconfigures the device and its children. -ucfg Unconfigures, but does not undefine the specified device. The device's state will be moved from Available to Defined. To move the device back to Available state run cfgdev -dev Name command. -f Forcefully removes or unconfigures the device even if it is in use.  This option can be used only with the physical volumes in cluster environment, where the device is not used in the active cluster of the system.   Exit Status See .   Examples To unconfigure the cd0 CD-ROM device, type the command as follows: rmdev  -dev cd0   To unconfigure the SCSI adapter scsi1 and all of its children, type the command as follows:  rmdev  -recursive -dev scsi1   To unconfigure just the children of the SCSI adapter scsi1, but not the adapter itself, type the command as follows: rmdev  -pdev scsi1    To unconfigure the children of PCI bus pci1 and all other devices under them, type the command as follows: rmdev  -pdev pci1    To remove the suspended virtual adapter and all the children, type the command as follows:rmdev -dev susadpt0 -recursive The system displays the following output:vtscsi0            deleted client_rootvg      deleted susadpt0           deleted  If you attempt to remove the interface that is used for cluster communication by typing the command as follows:rmdev -dev en0 The system displays the following error message with return code 78:The requested operation is not allowed because partition is a member of "test_cluster" cluster. Interface being used is "en0" ("inet" Family) for cluster communication.   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.    Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 rmpath command Purpose Removes from the system a path to an MPIO-capable device.   Syntax rmpath  { [  Name ] [  Parent ] [  Connection ] } [  ]   Description The rmpath command unconfigures, and possibly undefines, one or more paths associated with the specified target device (-dev Name). The set of paths that is removed is determined by the combination of the -dev Name, -pdev Parent and -conn Connection flags. If the command will result in all paths associated with the device being unconfigured or undefined, the command will exit with an error and without unconfiguring or undefining any path. In this situation, rmdev command must be used instead to unconfigure or undefine the target device itself.  The default action unconfigures each specified path, but does not completely remove it from the system. If the -rm flag is specified, the rmpath command unconfigures (if necessary) and removes, or deletes, the path definition(s) from the system.  When the rmpath command finishes, it displays a status message. When unconfiguring paths, it is possible for this command to be able to unconfigure some paths and not others (for example, paths that are in the process of doing I/O cannot be unconfigured).  The rmpath command provides status messages about the results of operation. Messages in one of the following formats will be generated: path [ defined | deleted ]  This message is displayed when a single path was successfully unconfigured or undefined. If the path is successfully configured the message path available displays. If the path is not successfully configured and there is no explicit error code returned by the method, the message path defined displays.  paths [defined | deleted]  This message is displayed if multiple paths were identified and all paths were successfully unconfigured or undefined. If the -rm flag is not specified, the message would be paths defined. If the -rm flag is specified, the message would be paths deleted.  some paths [ defined | deleted ]  This message is display if multiple paths were identified, but only some of them were successfully unconfigured or undefined. If the -rm flag is not specified, the message would be some paths defined. If the -rm flag is specified, the message would be some paths deleted. no paths processed  This message is generated if no paths were found matching the selection criteria.    Flags Flag name Description -rm  Indicates that the specified paths are to be deleted from the system. -dev Name  Specifies the logical device name of the target device whose path is to be removed. The paths to be removed are qualified via the -pdev and -conn flags. -pdev Parent Indicates the logical device name of the parent device to use in qualifying the paths to be removed. Since all paths to a device cannot be removed by this command, either this flag, the -conn flag, or both must be specified. -conn Connection Indicates the connection information to use in qualifying the paths to be removed. Since all paths to a device cannot be removed by this command, either this flag, the -pdev flag, or both must be specified.   Exit Status See .   Examples 1.	To unconfigure the path from scsi0 to hdisk1 at connection 5,0, type: rmpath -dev hdisk1 -pdev scsi0 -conn "5,0" The message generated would be similar to: path defined To unconfigure all paths from scsi0 to hdisk1, type: rmpath -dev hdisk1 -pdev scsi0  If all paths were successfully unconfigured, the message generated would be similar to: paths defined However, if only some of the paths were successfully unconfigured, the message would be similar to: some paths defined    To undefine the path definition between scsi0 and hdisk1 at connection 5,0, type: rmpath -rm -dev hdisk1 -pdev scsi0 -conn "5,0"  The message generated would be similar to the following: path deleted    To unconfigure all paths from scsi0 to hdisk1, type: rmpath -rm -dev hdisk1 -pdev scsi0 The message generated would be similar to: paths deleted      Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 rmvdev command Purpose To remove the connection between a physical device and its associated virtual SCSI adapter.   Syntax rmvdev [  ] {  TargetDevice  |  VirtualTargetDevice }  [] To remove a shared Ethernet adapter: rmvdev { SEAdevice} [ ] To remove a Link Aggregation adapter: rmvdev { LnaggDevice} [  [ TargetInterface]]   Description The rmvdev command removes the connection between a physical device and its associated virtual SCSI adapter. The connection can be identified by specifying the backing (physical) device or the virtual target device. If  the connection is specified by the device name and there are multiple connections between the physical device and virtual SCSI adapters and error is returned unless the -f flag is also specified.  If -f is included then all connections associated with the physical device are removed.    If the backing (physical) device is a logical volume and the -rmlv flag is specified, then logical volume will be removed as well.   Flags Flag name Description -f Forces the removal of all virtual target devices associated with the given backing device. -vdev TargetDevice Specifies the physical backing device -rmlv Deletes the backing device. This flag is valid only for logical volume backing devices. -vtd VirtualTargetDevice Specifies the virtual target device to remove. -sea SEAdevice Removes the Shared Ethernet Adapter -auto Migrates and removes the shared Ethernet adapter when used with the -migrate option. -migrate Migrates the settings from the physical adapter interface to the shared Ethernet adapter interface. -lnagg LnaggDevice Removes a Link Aggregation device. -interface TargetInterface Deleted the interfaces configured on the system for the target interface.   Exit Status See .   Examples To remove the connection between a physical volume and its associated virtual SCSI adapter by specifying the physical volume, type the following command: rmvdev -vdev hdisk4   To remove the connection between a logical volume and its associated virtual SCSI adapter by specifying the logical volume and then to remove the logical volume after the connection is removed, type the following command:  rmvdev -vdev lv1 -rmlv   To remove the connection between a backing device and its associated virtual SCSI adapter by specifying the virtual target device, type the following command: rmvdev -vtd vtscsi0    To remove multiple connections between a physical volume and virtual SCSI adapters by specifying the physical volume, type the following command:rmvdev -vdev hdisk0 -f      Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 save_base command Purpose Saves information about base-customized devices in the Device Configuration database for the boot device.   Syntax save_base [ Directory][ File][]   Description The save_base command stores customized information for base devices to use during phase 1 of system boot. By default, the save_base command retrieves this information from the /etc/objrepos directory. However, you can override this action by using the -o flag to specify an ODM directory. The save_base command is typically run without any parameters. It uses the /dev/ipl_blv special file link to identify the output destination.  Alternatively, use the -d flag to specify a destination file or a device, such as the /dev/hdisk0 device file. To identify a specific output destination, the -d flag identifies the file to which save_base writes the base customized device data. This file can be either a regular file or a device special file. The device special file identifies either a disk device special file or a boot logical volume device special file.  A disk device special file can be used where there is only one boot logical volume on the disk. The save_base command ensures that the given disk has only one boot logical volume present. If neither of these conditions is true, save_base does not save the base customized device data to the disk and exits with an error.    When a second boot logical volume is on a disk, the boot logical volume device special file must be used as the destination device to identify which boot image the base customized device data will be stored in. A boot logical volume device special file can be used even if there is only one boot logical volume on the disk. The save_base command ensures that the given device special file is a boot logical volume and it is bootable before saving any data to it. If either of these checks fails, save_base exits with an error.  The save_base command determines what device information to save using the PdDv.base field corresponding to each entry in the CuDv object class. Specifically, the PdDv.base field is a bit mask which represents the type of boot for which this device is a base device. The save_base command determines the current type of boot by accessing the boot_mask attribute in the CuAt object class. The value of this attribute is the bit mask to apply to the PdDv.base field to determine which devices are base.    Base devices are those devices that get configured during phase 1 boot; they may vary depending on the type of boot (mask). For example, if the mask is NETWORK_BOOT, network devices are considered base; for DISK_BOOT, disk devices are considered base. The type of boot masks are defined in the /usr/include/sys/cfgdb.h file.  The -m flag is no longer used by the save_base command. For compatibility reasons, the flag can be specified, but is not used.   Flags Flag name Description -path Directory  Specifies a directory containing the Device Configuration database.  By default, the save_base command retrieves this information from the /etc/objrepos directory. -file file Specifies the destination file or device to which the base information will be written. -verbose Specifies that verbose output is to be written to standard output (STDIN).   Exit Status See .   Examples  To save the base customized information and see verbose output, type the following command: save_base -verbose To specify an ODM directory other than the /usr/lib/objrepos directory, type the following command: save_base -o /tmp/objrepos To save the base customized information to the /dev/hdisk0 device file instead of to the boot disk, type the following command: save_base -d /dev/hdisk0     Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 snmpv3_ssw command Purpose Switch the symbolic links among the non-encrypted snmpdv3 agent, encrypted snmpdv3 agent and snmpdv1 agent. Syntax snmpv3_ssw [  |  |  ] Description Switch the symbolic links among the non-encrypted snmpdv3 agent, encrypted snmpdv3 agent and snmpdv1 agent, and then start the newly chosen SNMP agent.  A user can choose which version of SNMP agent to run.  For example, if the current running SNMP agent is the encrypted snmpdv3 agent, the actual SNMP agent executable which is running on the machine is "/usr/sbin/snmpdv3e". The symbolic links on the machine are: /usr/sbin/snmpd --> /usr/sbin/snmpdv3e /usr/sbin/clsnmp --> /usr/sbin/clsnmpe  If a user chooses to switch to the non-encrypted snmpdv3 agent, after user runs the /usr/sbin/snmpv3_ssw command with the -n option, the actual snmp agent which is running on the machine "/usr/sbin/snmpdv3ne". The symbolic links on the machine will be changed to: /usr/sbin/snmpd --> /usr/sbin/snmpdv3ne /usr/sbin/clsnmp --> /usr/sbin/clsnmpne Flags  Item Description -e Switch to the encrypted version of snmpdv3 agent. -n Switch to the non-encrypted version of snmpdv3 agent. -1 Switch to the snmpdv1 agent. Security Any user can run the svmon command. If the user is not a root user, the view will be limited to the user's own processes. If  is activated and the vios.security.manage.snmp.switch role is attributed to a user, then that user can see the same view that the root user does.   This command can perform privileged operations. Only privileged users can run privileged operations. For more information about authorizations and privileges, see Privileged Command Database in . For a list of privileges and the authorizations associated with this command, see the  command or the  subcommand. Examples To switch to the encrypted version of snmpdv3 agent, enter: /usr/sbin/snmp3_ssw -e Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 vfcmap command Purpose Maps the virtual fibre channel adapter to the physical fibre channel port.   Syntax vfcmap  virtual fibre channel adapter  fibre channel port name   Description The vfcmap command maps or unmaps the virtual fibre channel adapter to the physical fibre channel port.   Flags Flag name Description -vadapter virtual fibre channel adapter Specifies the virtual server adapter. -fcp fibre channel port name Specifies the physical fibre channel port.   If no parameter is specified with this flag, the command unmaps the virtual fibre channel adapter from the physical fibre channel port.   Exit Status The following exit values are returned: Return code Description 0 Successful completion. >0 Invalid flag, argument, or command failure.   Examples  To map the virtual fibre channel, vfchost7, to the physical fibre channel port, fcs0, type: vfcmap -vadapter vfchost7 -fcp fcs0 The system displays the following message: vfchost0 changed To unmap the virtual fibre channel, vfchost7, from any physical fibre channel port, type: vfcmap -vadapter vfchost7 -fcp  The system displays the following message: vfchost0 changed   Related InformationThe  and  commands.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Installation commands Commands related to installing the . Parent topic:          
 bootlist command Purpose Displays and alters the list of boot devices available to the system.   Syntax bootlist -mode mode {[  -ls  ] [ [ -rm ]  | [  Device [ -attr Attribute=Value ... ] ... ] ] }   Description The bootlist command allows the user to display and alter the list of possible boot devices from which the system may be booted. When the system is booted, it will scan the devices in the list and attempt to boot from the first device it finds containing a boot image. This command supports the updating of the following:  Service boot list. The service list designates possible boot devices for when the system is booted in service mode. How a system is booted in service mode is hardware-platform dependent. It may require a key switch to be turned to the Service position, a particular function key to be pressed during the boot process, or some other mechanism, as defined for the particular hardware platform. Previous boot device entry. This entry designates the last device from which the system booted. Some hardware platforms may attempt to boot from the previous boot device before looking for a boot device in one of the other lists.  The bootlist command supports the specification of generic device types as well as specific devices for boot candidates.  Devices in the boot device list occur in the same order as devices listed on the invocation of this command.  The selection of the boot list to display or alter is made with the -mode mode option, where the mode variable is one of the keywords: service, normal, both, or prevboot. If the both keyword is specified, then both the normal boot list and the service boot list will be displayed, or if being altered, will be set to the same list of devices. If the prevboot keyword is specified, the only alteration allowed is with the -rm flag . The -rm flag invalidates the boot list specified by the -mode flag.  The devices currently in the boot list may be displayed by using the -ls flag. The list of devices that make up the specified boot list will be displayed, one device per line. If a device specified in the boot list is no longer present on the system, a '-' is displayed instead of a name.   When you add a hot plug adapter to the system, that adapter and its child devices might not be available for specification as a boot device when you use the bootlist command. You may be required to reboot your system to make all potential boot devices known to the operating system.   Device Choices 	The device name specified on the command line can occur in one of two different 	forms:   	It can indicate a specific device by its device logical name. It can indicate a generic or special device type by keyword. The following generic device keywords are supported:   	Keywords Description fd   Any standard I/O-attached diskette drive scdisk   Any SCSI-attached disk (including serial-link disk drives) badisk   Any direct bus-attached disk cd   Any SCSI-attached CD-ROM rmt   Any SCSI-attached tape device  ent   Any Ethernet adapter fddi   Any Fiber Distributed Data Interface adapter  	When a specific device is to be included in the device list, the 	device's logical name (used with system management commands) must be specified. 	This logical name is made up of a prefix and a suffix. The suffix is generally 	a number and designates the specific device. The specified device must be 	in the Available state. If it is not, the update to the device list is rejected and this command fails. The following devices and their associated logical 	names are supported (where the bold type is the prefix and the xx variable is the device-specific suffix):    	Device name Description fdxx    Diskette-drive device logical names hdiskxx    Physical-volume device logical names cdxx    SCSI CD-ROM device logical names rmtxx    Magnetic-tape device logical names entxx   Ethernet-adapter logical names fddixx   Fiber Distributed Data Interface adapter logical names  	 Attribute Choices 	Attributes are extra pieces of information about a device that the user 	supplies on the command line. Since this information is specific to a particular 	device, generic devices do not have attributes. Attributes apply to the device 	that immediately precedes them on the command line, which allows attributes 	to be interspersed among devices on the command line. Currently, only network 	devices have attributes. These are:  	Attribute Description bserver IP address of the BOOTP server gateway IP address of the gateway client IP address of the client speed Network adapter speed duplex The mode of the network adapter  	 Error Handling 	If this command returns with an error, the device lists are not altered. 	The following device list errors are possible:  	If the user attempts to display or alter a boot list that is not supported 	by the hardware platform, the command fails, indicating the mode is not supported. If the user attempts to add too many devices to the boot list, the command 	fails, indicating that too many devices were requested. The number of devices 	supported varies depending on the device selection and the hardware platform 	. If an invalid keyword, invalid flag, or unknown device is specified, the 	command fails with the appropriate error message.  If a specified device is not in the Available state, the command 	fails with the appropriate error message.   	 Flags  Flag name Description Device Provides the names of the specific or generic devices to include in the boot list. -attr Attribute=Value Specifies the device attribute value pairs to be used instead of the defaults. The Attribute=Value variable can be used to specify one attribute value pair or multiple attribute value pairs for one -attr flag. If you use an -attr flag with multiple attribute value pairs, the list of pairs must be enclosed in quotation marks with a blank space between the pairs. For example, entering -attr Attribute=Value lists one attribute value pair per flag, while entering -attr 'Attribute1=Value1 Attribute2=Value2' lists more than one attribute value pair. -mode Mode Specifies which boot list to  display or  alter. Possible values for the mode variable are normal, service, both, or prevboot. -ls Indicates that the specified boot list is to be displayed after any specified alteration is performed. The output is a list of device names. -rm Indicates that the device list specified by the -mode flag should be invalidated.   Exit Status See .   Examples To invalidate the Service mode boot list, type:   bootlist -mode service -rm To make a boot list for Normal mode with devices listed on the command line, type:   bootlist -mode normal hdisk0 hdisk1 rmt0 fd To attempt to boot through a gateway using Ethernet, and then try other devices, type a command similar to the following. Substitute the IP addresses specified in the example with your IP addresses.   bootlist -mode normal ent0 -attr gateway=129.35.21.1 bserver=129.12.2.10 \ client=129.35.9.23 hdisk0 rmt0 tok0 bserver=129.35.10.19 hdisk1   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Maintenance commands Commands related to maintaining the . Parent topic:          
 backup command To back up a file system by i-node, specify the -Level and FileSystem parameters. When used in conjunction with the -u  flag, the -Level parameter provides a method of maintaining a hierarchy of incremental backups for each file system. Specify the -u flag and set the -Level parameter to n to back up only those files that have been modified since the n-1 level back up.  The possible back up levels are 0 to 9. A level 0 back up archives all files in the file system. The FileSystem parameter can specify either the physical device name (block or raw name) or the name of the directory on which the file system is mounted. The default file system is the root (/) file system.  Users must have read access to the file system device (such as /dev/hd4) or have back up authorization to perform backups by i_node.  You must first unmount a file system before backing it up by i-node. If you attempt to back up a mounted file system, a warning message is displayed. The backup command continues, but the created back up might contain inconsistencies because of changes that might have occurred in the file system during the back up operation.  Backing up file systems by i-node truncates the uid or gid of files having a uid or gid greater than 65535. When restored, these files might have different values for the uid and gid attributes. To retain the values correctly, always back up by name those files that have a uid or gid greater than 65535.  You can archive only JFS (Journaled File System) file systems when backing up by i-node. Back up any non-JFS file systems by file name.   Purpose Backs up files and file systems.   Syntax To back up files by name:  backup  [  Number ] [  [  RegularExpression ] ] [ {force|ignore|warn} ] [ Device ] [  Number ] [  ] [  ] [  ] [  ] [  ]  To back up file systems by i-node:  backup [ [  ] [  Number ] [ ] [ Device ] [  Length ] [  ] [  ] ] [ FileSystem ] | [  |  ] [  ]   Description The backup command creates copies of your files on a back up medium, such as a magnetic tape or diskette. The copies are in one of the two back up formats:  Specific files backed up by name using the -i flag. Entire file system backed up by i-node using the Level and FileSystem parameters.  If you issue the backup command without any parameters, the root file system level 9 i-node back ups to the /dev/rfd0 device. The default syntax is: -9uf/dev/rfd0 /dev/rhd4  The default back up device is /dev/rfd0. If flags are specified that are not appropriate for the specified back up device, the backup command displays an error message and continues with the back up. A single back up can span multiple volumes.  Running the backup command results in the loss of all material previously stored on the selected output medium. Data integrity of the archive might be compromised if a file is modified during system back up. Keep system activity at a minimum during the system back up procedure. If a back up is made to a tape device with the device block size set to 0, it might be difficult to restore data from the tape unless the default write size was used with the backup command. The default write size for the backup command can be read by the restore command when the tape device block size is 0.  In other words, the -b flag should not be specified when the tape device block size is 0. If the -b flag of the backup command is specified and is different from the default size, the same size must be specified with the -b flag of the restore command when the archived files are restored from the tape.    Backing up files by name To back up by name, use the -i flag. The backup command reads standard input for the names of the files to be backed up.  File types can be special files, regular files, or directories. When the file type is a directory, only the directory is backed up. The files under the directory are not backed up, unless they are explicitly specified.  Files are restored using the same path names as the archived files. Therefore, to create a back up that can be restored from any path, use full path names for the files that you want to back up.  When backing up files that require multiple volumes, do not enter the list of file names from the keyboard. Instead, pipe or redirect the list from a file to the backup command.   When you enter the file names from the keyboard and the back up process needs a new tape or diskette, the command loses any file names already entered but not yet backed up. To avoid this problem, enter each file name only after the archived message for the previous file has been displayed. The archived message consists of the character a followed by the file name.  If you specify the -p flag, only files of less than 2 GB are packed.    Backing up file systems by i-node To back up a file system by i-node, specify the -Level and FileSystem parameters. When used in conjunction with the -u flag, the -Level parameter provides a method of maintaining a hierarchy of incremental backups for each file system. Specify the -u flag and set the -Level parameter to n to back up only those files that have been modified since the n-1 level backup. Information regarding the date, time, and level of each incremental backup is written to the /etc/dumpdates file. The possible backup levels are 0 to 9. A level 0 backup archives all files in the file system. If the /etc/dumpdates file contains no backup information for a particular file system, specifying any level causes all files in that file system to be archived.   The FileSystem parameter can specify either the physical device name (block or raw name) or the name of the directory on which the file system is mounted. The default file system is the root (/) file system. Users must have read access to the file system device (such as /dev/hd4) or have Backup authorization in order to perform backups by i_node. You must first unmount a file system before backing it up by i-node. If you attempt to back up a mounted file system, a warning message is displayed. The backup command continues, but the created backup may contain inconsistencies because of changes that may have occurred in the file system during the backup operation. Backing up file systems by i-node truncates the uid or gid of files having a uid or gid greater than 65535. When restored, these files may have different values for the uid and gid attributes. To retain the values correctly, always back up by name files having a uid or gid greater than 65535. You can archive only JFS (Journaled File System) file systems when backing up by i-node. Back up any non-JFS file systems by file name or by using other archive commands, such as the pax, tar, or cpio command  The -Z flag is mandatory for backing up encrypted file systems.   FlagsFlag name Description -b Number  For backups by name, specifies the number of 512-byte blocks; for backups by i-node, specifies the number of 1024-byte blocks to write in a single output operation. When the backup command writes to tape devices, the default is 100 for backups by name and 32 for backups by i-node.   The write size is the number of blocks multiplied by the block size. The default write size for the backup command writing to tape devices is 51200 (100 × 512) for backups by name and 32768 (32 × 1024) for backups by i-node. The write size must be an even multiple of the tape's physical block size.  The value of the -b flag is always ignored when the backup command writes to diskette.  -c Specifies that the tape is a cartridge, not a nine-track. -e RegularExpression Specifies that the files with names matching the regular expression are not to be packed. A regular expression is a set of characters, meta characters, and operators that define a string or group of strings in a search pattern. It can also be a string containing wildcard characters and operations that define a set of one or more possible strings. The -e flag is applied only when the -p flag is specified. -ejt Rewinds the tape and takes the tape drive offline. This will unload the tape when appropriate. The tape must be re-inserted before the device can be used again. -E For backups by name, the -E flag requires one of the following arguments. If you omit the -E option, warn is the default behavior.  force Fails the back up operation on a file if the fixed extent size or space reservation of the file cannot be preserved. ignore Ignores any errors in preserving extent attributes. warn Issues a warning if the space reservation or the fixed extent size of the file cannot be preserved.  -f Device  Specifies the output device. To send output to a named device, specify the Device variable as a path name such as the following example: /dev/rmt0 To send output to the standard output device, specify a - (minus sign). The - (minus sign) feature enables you to pipe the output of the backup command to the dd command.  You can also specify a range of archive devices. The range specification must be in the following format: /dev/deviceXXX-YYY where XXX and YYY are whole numbers, and XXX must always be less than YYY; for example:  /dev/rfd0-3  All devices in the specified range must be of the same type. For example, you can use a set of 8 mm, 2.3 GB tapes or a set of 1.44 MB diskettes. All tape devices must be set to the same physical tape block size.  If the Device variable specifies a range, the backup command automatically goes from one device in the range to the next. After exhausting all of the specified devices, the backup command stops and requests that new volumes be mounted on the range of devices. F   G   i Specifies that files be read from standard input and archived by file name. If relative path names are used, files are restored (with the restore command) relative to the current directory at restore time. If full path names are used, files are restored to those same names. -L Length Specifies the length of the tape in bytes. This flag overrides the -c, -d, and -s flags. You can specify the size with a suffix of b, k, m, or g to represent blocks (512 bytes), kilo (1024 bytes), mega (1024 KB), or giga (1024 MB), respectively. To represent a tape length of 2 GB, enter -L 2g.    Use the -L flag only for i-node backups. -Level Specifies the backup level (0 to 9). The default level is 9. -l Number Limits the total number of blocks to use on the diskette device. The value specified must be a nonzero multiple of the number of sectors per diskette track. This option applies to by-name backups only.  -o Creates a Version 2-compatible back up by name. This flag is required for compatibility with Version 2 systems because backups by name that are created by a version higher than 2 cannot be restored on Version 2 systems. To create a Version 2-compatible back up by name, use the -o flag along with other flags required for backups by name.Files with attributes and values, such as user IDs and group IDs, that are too large for Version 2 systems are not backed up. A message is displayed for each such file and each value that is too large. -p Specifies that the files be packed, or compressed, before they are archived. Only files smaller than 2 GB are packed.    This option should only be used when backing up files from an inactive file system. Modifying a file when a back up is in progress might result in corruption of the back up and an inability to recover the data. When backing up to a tape device that performs compression, this option can be omitted. -q Indicates that the removable medium is ready to use. When you specify the -q flag, the backup command proceeds without prompting you to prepare the back up medium. Press the Enter key to continue. This option applies only to the first volume. You are prompted for subsequent volumes. The -q flag applies only to backups by name. -U Specifies to back up any access control list (ACL)s or named extended attributes. Without this option the image will include only   and Printing Color Files (PCLs) in the archive along with the other regular file data.  -u Updates the /etc/dumpdates file with the raw device name of the file system and the time, date, and level of the back up. You must specify the -u flag if you are making incremental backups. The -u flag applies only to backups by i-node. -v Causes the backup command to display additional information about the back up. When using the -v flag, the size of the file as it exists on the archive is displayed in bytes. Additionally, a total of these file sizes is displayed when all files have been processed. Directories are listed with a size of 0. Symbolic links are listed with the size of the symbolic link. Hard links are listed with the size of the file, which is how hard links are archived. Block and character devices, if they were backed up, are listed with a size of 0.  When the -v flag is not specified, the backup command displays only the names of the files being archived. This option is used only when backing up by file name. -w Disabled. If the -w flag is specified, no other flags are applied. -W Displays, for each file system in the /etc/dumpdates file, the most recent back up date and level. If the -W flag is specified, no other flags are applied.   Exit Status This command returns the following exit values:  Return code Description 0   Successful completion. >0   An error occurred.   Examples To back up all the files and subdirectories in the /home directory using full path names, type the following command:  find /home -print | backup  -i -f /dev/rmt0  The -i flag specifies that files will be read from standard input and archived by the file name. The find command generates a list of all the files in the /home directory. The files in this list are full path names. The | (pipe symbol) causes this list to be read from standard input by the backup command. The -f flag directs the backup command to write the files to the /dev/rmt0 tape device. Because the files are archived using full path names, they will be written to the same paths when restored. To back up all the files and subdirectories in the /home/padmin directory using relative path names, type the following command:  find . -print | backup  -i -v -q  Each file name in the list generated by the find command is preceded by ./ (dot, slash). Because the files are backed up using relative path names, they are written to the current directory when restored. The -v flag causes the backup command to display additional information about the backup. The files are written to the default backup device /dev/rfd0. To back up the / (root) file system, type the following command:  backup  -0 -u -f /dev/rmt0 /  The 0 level specifies that all the files in the / (root) file system be backed up. The -u flag causes the backup command to update the /etc/dumpdates  file for this backup. To back up all the files in the root (/) file system that have been modified since the last level 0 backup, type the following command:  backup  -1 -u -f /dev/rmt0 /  If the /etc/dumpdates file does not have an entry for a level 0 backup of the / (root) system, all the files in the file system are backed up. To back up virtual optical media files from the virtual media repository, complete the following tasks: Create a file called backup_files with the names of the files to be backed up.  Include the full path name. /var/vio/VMLibrary/media_file1 /var/vio/VMLibrary/media_file2 /var/vio/VMLibrary/media_filen Send the file using the backup command: cat backup_files | backup -i -f /dev/rmt0   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 backupios command Purpose Creates an installable image of the root volume group either onto a bootable tape, file system, or DVD.   Syntax backupios   {Directory} [] []  backupios   {File name} [] [ ] [] []  backupios   Device [] [ ] [] [] []  backupios   Device   { | } [] [] []   Description The backupios command creates a backup of the  and places it onto a file system, bootable tape, or DVD. You can use this backup to reinstall a system to its original state after it has been corrupted. If you create the backup on tape , the tape is bootable and includes the installation programs needed to install from the backup.   If the -cd flag is specified, the backupios command creates a system backup image to DVD-RAM media. If you need to create multi-volume discs because the image does not fit on one disc, the backupios command gives instructions for disk replacement and removal until all the volumes have been created.    Vendor disc drives may support burning to additional disc types, such as CD-RW and DVD-R. Refer to the documentation for your drive to determine which disc types are supported.  If the -file flag is specified, the backupios command creates a system backup image to the path specified. The file system must be mounted and writable by the  root user prior to running the backupios command (see  for details). Backing up the  to a remote file system will create the nim_resources.tar image in the directory you specify. The  must have root write access to the server on which the backup will be created. This backup can be reinstalled from the  using the installios command.  The backupios command empties the target_disks_stanza section of bosinst.data (which is part of the nim_resources.tar image) and sets RECOVER_DEVICES=Default. This allows the mksysb file generated by the command to be cloned to another logical partition.  If you plan to use the nim_resources.tar image to install to a specific disk, then you need to repopulate the target_disks_stanza section of bosinst.data and replace this file in the nim_resources.tar image. All other parts of the nim_resources.tar image must remain unchanged.  Prior to backing up the root volume group, the backupios command saves the structure of all user-defined volume groups by calling the savevgstruct command for each volume group defined. To avoid having all user-defined volume groups backed up, use the -nosvg flag.   The backupios command backs up only the volume group structures that are activated. The structures of volumes groups that are deactivated are not backed up.   Flags Flag name Description -accept Accepts licenses. -blocks Number Specifies the number of 512-byte blocks to write in a single output operation. Default is 100. Should be used with tape device only. -cd Specifies the cd device name on which the image is to be stored. -cdformat Creates final CD images that are DVD sized (up to 4.38 GB).  -file Specifies the directory on which the image is to be stored. Enter the complete directory pathname. Images are reinstalled using NIMOL. Note: When the -mksysb flag is used, the NIMOL resources are not saved in the image. With -mksysb option, specify filename. When the -mksysb flag is used, the NIMOL resources are not saved in the image. With -mksysb option, specify filename. -mksysb Creates an image without the NIMOL resources. -nomedialib  Prevents the contents of the media repository from being saved as part of the backupios process. -nopak When used with the -tape flag, the -nopak flag disables software packing of the files as they are backed up. Some tape drives use their own packing or compression algorithms. When used with the -file flag, the -nopak flag excludes files that are listed line by line in the /etc/exclude_packing.rootvg file from being packed. -nosvg Prevents the volume groups structure of user defined volume groups from being saved as part  of the backupios process. -tape Specifies the tape device name on which the image is to be stored. -udf Creates a UDF (Universal Disk Format) file system on DVD-RAM media. The default format is Rock Ridge (ISO9660). -verify Verifies a tape backup. This flag causes the  command to verify the file header of each file on the backup tape and report any read errors as they occur.   Exit Status See .   ExamplesTo generate a backup to the optical device named /dev/cd1, type: backupios -cd /dev/cd1 -cdformat To generate a system backup to a tape device named /dev/rmt0, type: backupios -tape /dev/rmt0   Related Information The  command and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 cattracerpt command Purpose Formats a report from the trace log.   Syntaxcattracerpt [ -hookid List | -lshid ] [  -outfile FileName ]   Description The cattracerpt command reads the trace log, formats the trace entries, and writes a report to standard output.   Flags Flag name Description -hookid List Limits report to hook IDs specified with the List variable. The List parameter items must be separated by commas. -lshid Displays the list of hook IDs. The cattracerpt -listid command can be used with the starttrace -event command that includes IDs of trace events. -outfile File Writes the report to a file instead of to standard output.   Exit Status See .   Examples  To send a trace report to the newfile file, enter: cattracerpt -outfile newfile To display a list of hook IDs, enter: cattracerpt -lshid    Related Information The  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 chdate command Purpose Displays or changes the date, time or time zone.   Syntax  [ mmddHHMM [YYyy | yy] ] [ TZ]     [ YYyy] [ mm] [ dd] [ HH] [ MM] [ TZ]    Description Displays or changes the system date, time, or time zone. Changes made to the time zone will not take effect until the user logs out. For the time zone to take effect for the entire system, the system must be rebooted. All flags are optional, and the current system time information will be used if a flag was unspecified.    If no flags or arguments are specified, the  command displays the current date and time.    The mmddHHMM [YYyy | yy]	parameters correspond to month, day, hour, minute, and optional 4 or 2 digit year.  If you do not specify the first 2 digits of the year, values in the range 70 - 99 refer to the twentieth century and values in the range 00 - 37 refer to the twenty-first century. If a 4-digit year is specified, the  command attempts to set the year to YYyy and fails for the values that are out of range (less than 1970 and greater than 2105). For years in the range 2038 - 2105, specify the year in the yyyy format.   The user must have padmin authority to change the date and time.   Flags Flag name Description -year Sets the year to YYyy. -month Sets the month to mm. -day Sets the day to dd. -hour Sets the hour to HH in 24-hour format. -minute Sets the minute to MM. -timezone Sets the time zone (for example, CST6CDT).   Exit Status See .   Examples To display the current date and time, type:  chdate To change the date to Tue Oct 12 16:30:00 CDT 2004 for a system in the US Central time zone, type: chdate -day 12 -month 10 -year 2004 -hour 16 -minute 30  or chdate 101216302004   The user must have padmin authority to change the date and time.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 chlang command Purpose Changes the language settings for the system.   Syntax chlang { [ -msg msgtran ] -lang Name [ -dev Media | -ls }   Description The chlang command is a high-level command that changes the language and keyboard settings for the entire . The user needs to log out for language changes to take effect.  If the language file sets are not already installed on the system, the -dev flag is used to specify their location.  When chlang is run with the -ls option, all available languages are listed.   Flags Flag name Description -msg msgtran Modifies the NSLPATH environment variable. The msgtran parameter is a colon-separated list of message translations (locale names) that indicates the message translation hierarchy required for the system or user. -dev Media Specifies the device or directory containing the images to install.  -lang Name Specifies the language-territory (locale name) that will become the locale setting for the LANG environment variable. -ls Lists available languages.   Exit Status See .   Examples To change the language for the entire system to French Canadian, type:  chlang -lang fr_CA To display available languages:  chlang -ls   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 diagmenu command Purpose Places the user into the diagnostic menus.   Syntax diagmenu   Description The diagmenu command performs hardware problem determination and maintenance. When the user suspects there is a problem, diagmenu assists in finding it. Through the diagnostic menus, users can perform tasks such as running diagnostics, hot plugging devices, formatting and certifying media, and managing RAID devices.  Once inside the diagnostic menus, task specific help can be obtained by pressing the F1 key.   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 errlog command Purpose Displays or clears the error log.   Syntax errlog [] [ SequenceNumber] |  Days]   Description The errlog command generates an error report from entries in the  error log or deletes all entries from the error log older the number of days specified by the Days parameter. To delete all error-log entries, specify a value of 0 for the Days parameter.  If no flags are specified a summary report is displayed.   Flags Flag name Description -ls Displays detailed information about errors in the error log file.  -rm Days Deletes error-log entries older than the number of days specified by the Days parameter. -seq SequenceNumber Displays information about a specific error in the error log file by the sequence number.   Exit Status See .   Examples To display a complete detailed report, enter: errlog -ls To delete error-log entries older than 5 days, enter: errlog -rm 5 To delete all error-log entries, enter: errlog -rm 0      Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 fsck command Purpose Checks file system consistency and interactively repairs the file system.   Syntax fsck [ FileSystem ... ]   Description The fsck command checks and interactively repairs inconsistent file systems. Normally, the file system is consistent, and the fsck command merely reports on the number of files, used blocks, and free blocks in the file system. If the file system is inconsistent, the fsck command displays information about the inconsistencies found and prompts you for permission to repair them. If no FileSystem is specified, all file systems are checked.  The fsck command checks for the following inconsistencies: Blocks or fragments allocated to multiple files. inodes containing block or fragment numbers that overlap. inodes containing block or fragment numbers out of range. Discrepancies between the number of directory references to a file and the link count of the file. Illegally allocated blocks or fragments. inodes containing block or fragment numbers that are marked free in the disk map. inodes containing corrupt block or fragment numbers. A fragment that is not the last disk address in an inode. This check does not apply to compressed file systems. Files larger than 32KB containing a fragment. This check does not apply to compressed file systems. Size checks: Incorrect number of blocks. Directory size not a multiple of 512 bytes.   These checks do not apply to compressed file systems. Directory checks: Directory entry containing an inode number marked free in the inode map. inode number out of range. Dot (.) link missing or not pointing to itself. Dot dot (..) link missing or not pointing to the parent directory. Files that are not referenced or directories that are not reachable. Inconsistent disk map. Inconsistent inode map.  In addition to its messages, the fsck command records the outcome of its checks and repairs through its exit value. This exit value can be any sum of the following conditions: Value Description 0 All checked file systems are now okay. 2 The fsck command was interrupted before it could complete checks or repairs. 4 The fsck command changed the file system; the user must restart the system immediately. 8 The file system contains unrepaired damage.   Exit Status See .   Examples To check a file system, enter: fsck /dev/hd1 This command checks the unmounted file system located on the /dev/hd1 device.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 fcstat command PurposeDisplays the statistics of the virtual adapter gathered by the specified Fibre Channel device driver. Syntaxfcstat [ | ] []  fcstat  fcstat  DescriptionThe  command displays the statistics gathered by the specified Fibre Channel device driver. It collects the statistics using the following process:Opens the message catalog of  and checks the parameter list. Accesses the Object Data Manager (ODM) database for information that relates to the selected virtual adapter. Accesses the ODM database for information that relates to ports of the selected virtual adapter. Opens and accesses adapter statistics of the virtual adapter. Reports statistics and exits program. Flags Flag name Description -client  Displays the statistics of the virtual adapter per client. -d  Displays the statistics by opening the adapter in diagnostic mode. -device_name  The name of the Fibre Channel device, for example, . -e Displays all the statistics, which includes the device-specific statistics. -n wwpn device_name Displays the statistics on a virtual port level that is specified by the worldwide port number (WWPN) of the virtual adapter. -z Resets some of the statistics back to their initial values. Only privileged users can issue this flag. Exit StatusReturn code Description 0 Successful completion. >0 An error occurred. Examples To display the statistics for Fibre Channel device driver fcs0, type the command as follows:fcstat fcs0 Output similar to the following is displayed.    The output format of various  commands is not always static. Do not write programs with the expectation that the output for the fcstat command will remain as follows.  FIBRE CHANNEL STATISTICS REPORT: fcs0     Device Type: FC Adapter (df1000f9)     Serial Number: 1E313BB001     Option ROM Version: 02C82115     ZA: B1F2.10A5     Node WWN: 20000000C9487B04     Port WWN: 10000000C9416DA4     FC4 Types        Supported: 0x0000010000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000       Active:    0x0000010000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000     Class of Service: 4     Port FC ID: 011400     Port Speed (supported): 2 GBIT     Port Speed (running):   1 GBIT     Port Type: Fabric     Seconds Since Last Reset: 345422     Transmit Statistics    Receive Statistics     -------------------    ------------------     Frames: 1              Frames: 1     Words: 1               Words: 1     LIP Count: 1     NOS Count: 1     Error Frames:  1     Dumped Frames: 1     Link Failure Count: 1     Loss of Sync Count: 1     Loss of Signal: 1     Primitive Seq Protocol Err Count: 1     Invalid Tx Word Count: 1     Invalid CRC Count: 1     IP over FC Adapter Driver Information       No DMA Resource Count: 0                      No Adapter Elements Count: 0                    FC SCSI Adapter Driver Information       No DMA Resource Count: 0                      No Adapter Elements Count: 0                      No Command Resource Count: 0                    IP over FC Traffic Statistics       Input Requests:   0                      Output Requests:  0                      Control Requests: 0                      Input Bytes:  0                      Output Bytes: 0                    FC SCSI Traffic Statistics       Input Requests:   16289                  Output Requests:  48930                  Control Requests: 11791                  Input Bytes:  128349517              Output Bytes: 209883136   To display the statistics on a virtual port level specified by the WWPN of the virtual adapter, type the command as follows:fcstat -n C050760547E90000 fcs0 The system displays the output as follows: FIBRE CHANNEL STATISTICS REPORT: fcs0 Device Type: 8Gb PCI Express Dual Port FC Adapter (df1000f114108a03) (adapter/pciex/df1000f114108a0) Serial Number: 1B03205232 Option ROM Version: 02781135 ZA: U2D1.10X5 World Wide Node Name: 0xC050760547E90000 World Wide Port Name: 0xC050760547E90000 FC-4 TYPES:   Supported: 0x0000012000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000   Active:    0x0000010000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 Class of Service: 3 Port Speed (supported): 8 GBIT Port Speed (running):   8 GBIT Port FC ID: 0x010f00 Port Type: Fabric Seconds Since Last Reset: 431494         Transmit Statistics     Receive Statistics         -------------------     ------------------ Frames: 2145085                 1702630 Words:  758610432               187172864 LIP Count: 0 NOS Count: 0 Error Frames:  0 Dumped Frames: 0 Link Failure Count: 0 Loss of Sync Count: 0 Loss of Signal: 0 Primitive Seq Protocol Error Count: 0 Invalid Tx Word Count: 61 Invalid CRC Count: 0 IP over FC Adapter Driver Information   No DMA Resource Count: 0   No Adapter Elements Count: 0 FC SCSI Adapter Driver Information   No DMA Resource Count: 0   No Adapter Elements Count: 0   No Command Resource Count: 0 IP over FC Traffic Statistics   Input Requests:   0   Output Requests:  0   Control Requests: 0   Input Bytes:  0   Output Bytes: 0 FC SCSI Traffic Statistics   Input Requests:   336   Output Requests:  6797   Control Requests: 5   Input Bytes:  5689607   Output Bytes: 30281728 To display the statistics of the virtual adapter per client, type the command as follows:fcstat -client  The output format of various  commands is not always static. Do not write programs with the expectation that the output for the fcstat command will remain as follows. The system displays the output as follows: hostname  dev                wwpn   inreqs  outreqs ctrlreqs    inbytes outbytes DMA_errs Elem_errs Comm_errs  hina9v02 fcs0  0x10000000C995AECF    52648       30   528456   19695654      600        0         0         0  hina901  fcs1  0xC05076029C360000     2592        9   523264    3780212      180        0         0         0  hina902  fcs1  0xC05076029C360008     2136        4      428    4362876       80        0         0         0  hina903  fcs1  0xC05076029C360010     2721       17     1348      21768      340        0         0         0  hina904  fcs2  0xC05076029C360018        0        0        0          0        0        0         0         0  hina905  fcs2  0xC05076029C360020        0        0        0          0        0        0         0         0  hina908  fcs2  0xC05076029C360038        0        0        0          0        0        0         0         0  hina9v02 fcs3  0x10000000C9978277    23109       40   852078   27628067      800        0         0         0  hina901  fcs1  0xC05076029C360004     3954       17   844919   14264972      340        0         0         0  hina902  fcs1  0xC05076029C36000C     2934        4      450    9906124       80        0         0         0  hina903  fcs1  0xC05076029C360014     2752       19     1379      22016      380        0         0         0  hina904  fcs1  0xC05076029C36001C        0        0        0          0        0        0         0         0  hina905  fcs1  0xC05076029C360024        0        0        0          0        0        0         0         0  hina908  fcs0  0xC05076029C36003C        0        0        0          0        0        0         0         0 Related InformationThe  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 ldfware command Purpose Loads the system's flash EPROM with the specified file, which must contain a valid binary flash EPROM image, and then reboots the system.   Syntax ldfware [  Device ]  filename  ldfware  ldfware    Description Periodically, you need to install fixes for your server firmware. If  you do not use an  to manage your server, you must get your fixes through your operating system. If your server is not connected to the Internet, you must obtain optical media that contains the server firmware fix and install the server firmware fix from the optical media.  The flash update image file is copied to the file system from diskette. The user needs to provide the image on a diskette if the user does not have access to remote file systems or any other files that are on the system. If enough space is not available, an error is reported stating additional system memory is needed. After the file is copied, a warning screen asks for confirmation to continue the update flash. Continuing the update flash reboots the system. The current flash image is not saved.  After you download and install a firmware fix, the fix is temporarily installed until you install it permanently. You might want to use the new level of firmware for a period of time to verify that it works correctly. When you are sure that the new level of firmware works correctly, you can permanently install the firmware fix. Be aware that if you install the firmware fix permanently (copy the temporary firmware level from the temporary side to the permanent side, so that the temporary and permanent sides contain the same level of firmware), you cannot return to the level that was previously on the permanent side. To install it permanently, use the -commit flag.   The ldfware command reboots the entire system. Do not use this command if more than one user is signed onto the system.   Flags Flag name Description -commit Commits the temporary image when booted from the temporary image. This effectively causes the permanent image to be copied over by the temporary image. This flag is not supported on all systems. -dev Device Specifies that the flash update image file is on diskette. The device_name variable specifies the device. The default device_name is /dev/fd0. -file FileName Specifies the file name of the image file source. The flash update image file source follows this flag. The file_name variable specifies the fully qualified path of the flash update image file. -reject Rejects the temporary image when booted from the permanent image.  This overwrites the temporary image with the permanent image. This flag is not supported on all systems.   Exit Status The following exit codes are returned:  Value Description 0 Completed successfully. 1 Command terminated due to an error.      2 Command was aborted by the user. 3 Command was aborted by the user using the F10 key.   Examples To update the firmware from a local file, type the following command:     ldfware -file /tmp/firmware/latest_flash    To update the firmware that is on a diskette, type the following command:                ldfware -device /dev/fd0 -file latest_flash  To update the firmware that is on a CD device, type the following command: mount -cd  /mnt ldfware -file /mnt/firmware/latest_flash   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 loginmsg command Purpose Modifies the  partition's login herald.   Syntax loginmsg {  | "Herald string" }   Description The loginmsg command sets the  partition's login herald.    Flags Flag name Description -reset Reset the login message back to the system default.   Examples To set the login herald to Welcome followed by login: on a separate line, type:  loginmsg "Welcome\nlogin:" To reset the login herald back to the system default, type: loginmsg -reset   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lsfware command Purpose Displays microcode and firmware levels of the system, adapters and devices.   Syntax lsfware [  |  Name ]   Description The lsfware command displays the platform system firmware microcode level and the service processor microcode levels, if supported. Not all systems contain a service processor, nor do all systems support displaying the system processor level. Information on a specific device is displayed with the -dev flag.   The -all flag displays system firmware/microcode for all devices.  The output from the -all flag is always delimiter separated.     Flags Flag name Description -all Displays microcode level information for all supported devices. -dev Name Displays microcode level information for the named device.   Examples To display the system firmware level and service processor (if present), type:   lsfware The system displays the following message: System Firmware level is TCP99256  To display the microcode level for all supported devices, type:  lsfware -all The system displays the following message: sys0|system:TCP99256  rmt0|C009  scraid0|adapter:4.20.18|adapter-boot:4.00.26  raid-dasd|22:FFC #:DDYS-T0.524D3031.53393446  raid-dasd|26:FFC #:DDYS-T0.524D3031.53393446  raid-dasd|2e:FFC #:DDYS-T0.525A3034.53393243  ....   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lslparinfo command Purpose Displays the logical partition number and name.   Syntax lslparinfo   Description The lslparinfo command displays LPAR number and LPAR name. If LPAR does not exist, -1 is displayed for LPAR number and NULL for LPAR name.   Examples 	To display the logical partition number and name, type: 	lslparinfo  	 Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 motd command Purpose Displays or modifies the partition's message of the day file.   Syntax motd  [ |  ]  Filename  motd  [ |  ]  "Message of the day string"   Description The motd command writes or appends to the partitions message of the day file.  The new message can be specified on the command line or in a file with the -file flag.  If no flags are specified the current message of the day is displayed.   Flags Flag name Description -append Appends the specified message to the current message of the day -file FileName Replaces the current message of the day with the contents of FileName -overwrite Replaces the current message of the day with the specified message   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 pdump command Purpose Perform platform (hardware and firmware) dump-related actions.   Syntax pdump { fstype  |  |  |  | }   Description The pdump command helps the operating system save firmware and hardware related dumps. This command also provides an estimate of the disk space required for storing these dumps. Note that platform and scan dumps are saved in order to capture the state of the firmware and the hardware for analysis.   Flags Flag name Description -disable Disables platform dumps. -enable Enables platform dumps. -ls Lists the current configuration of platform dump. -reserve fstype Reserves enough disk space on the system for platform dumps. The -enable option will create a file system (if one does not exist) exclusively for platform dumps. If a file system already exists and the size is not enough, the file system size will be increased. The fstype must be a valid file system type. If the file system already exists, any may be specified. -size Provides an estimate of disk space required to save the platform dumps when they occur. This option will interact with the firmware to provide this estimate. It is expected that, based on this space information, the user will have enough disk space allocated for platform dumps to be saved. The value output will be the required size in bytes.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 restore command Purpose Extracts files from archives created with the backup command.   Syntax To restore files archived by file name:  restore -x [ d M n Q v q e ] [ -b Number ] [ -f Device ] [ -s SeekBackup ] [ -E { force | ignore | warn } ] [ File ... ]  To list files archived by file name:  restore -T | -t [a l n q v Q ] [ -b Number ] [ -f Device ] [ -s SeekBackup ]  To restore files archived by file system:  restore -r [ B n q v y ] [ -b Number ] [ -f  Device ] [ -s SeekBackup ] restore -R [ B n v y ] [ -b Number ] [ -f Device ] [ -s SeekBackup ] restore -i [ h m n q v y ] [ -b Number ] [ -f Device ] [ -s SeekBackup ] restore -x [ B h n m q v y ] [ -b Number ] [ -f Device ] [ -s SeekBackup ] [ File ... ]  To restore files beginning at a specified volume number:   restore -X Number [ -Md n q v e Q ] [ -b Number ] [ -f Device ] [ -s Number ] [ -E { force | ignore | warn } ] [ File ... ]  To list files archived by file system:  restore -t | -T [ B a l n h q v y ] [ -b Number ] [ -f Device ] [ -s SeekBackup ] [ File ... ]  To restore file attributes archived by file name:  restore -Pstring [B d q v Q ] [ b Number] [ s SeekNumber ] [-f Device ] [ File ... ]  To restore file attributes archived by file system:  restore -Pstring [ h q v] [ b Number] [ s SeekNumber ] [-f Device] [ File ... ]   Description The restore command reads archives created by the backup operation and extracts the files stored on them. These archives can be in either file name or file system format. An archive can be stored on disk, diskette, or tape. Files must be restored using the same method by which they were archived. This requires that you know the format of the archive. The archive format can be determined by examining the archive volume header information that is displayed when using the -T flag. When using the -x, -r, -T, or -t flags, the restore command automatically determines the archive format.    The restore command determines the actively sparses files that are being restored. If a file has block aligned and sized areas that are NULL populated, then the restore command does not cause physical space for those file system blocks to be allocated. The size in bytes of the file remain the same, but the actual space taken within the file system is only for the non-NULL areas.  Individual files can be restored from either file name or file system archives by using the -x flag and specifying the file name. The file name must be specified as it exists on the archive. Files can be restored interactively from file system archives using the -i flag. The names of the files on an archive can be written to standard output using the -T flag.   Users must have write access to the file system device or have restore authorization in order to extract the contents of the archive.   The diskette device, /dev/rfd0, is the default media for the restore command. To restore from standard input, specify a dash (-) with the -f flag. You can also specify a range of devices, such as /dev/rmt0-2.    If you are restoring from a multiple-volume archive, the restore command reads the volume mounted, prompts you for the next volume, and waits for your response. After inserting the next volume, press the Enter key to continue restoring files.  If an archive was created using the backup command and was made to a tape device with the device block size set to 0, it might be necessary for you to have explicit knowledge of the block size that was used when the tape was created to restore from the tape.  Multiple archives can exist on a single tape. When you are restoring multiple archives from tape, the restore command expects the input device to be a no-retension-on-open, no-rewind-on-close tape device. Do not use a no-rewind tape device for restoring unless the -B, -s, or -X flag is specified.    File system archives  File system archives are also known as i-node archives due to the method used to archive the files. A file system name is specified with the backup command, and the files within that file system are archived based on their structure and layout within the file system. The restore command restores the files on a file system archive without any special understanding of the underlying structure of the file system.   When restoring file system archives, the restore command creates and uses a file named restoresymtable. This file is created in the current directory. The file is necessary for the restore command to do incremental file system restore operation.   Do not remove the restoresymtable file if you perform incremental file system backups and restores.  The File parameter is ignored when using either the -r or the -R flag.  File-name archives  File-name archives are created by specifying a list of file names to archive by using the backup command. The restore operation restores the files from a file name archive without any special understanding of the underlying structure of the file system. The restore operation allows for metacharacters to be used when specifying files for archive extraction. This provides the capability to extract files from an archive based on pattern matching. A pattern file name should be enclosed in single quotations, and patterns should be enclosed in parentheses (...).  About sparse files  File system files for the operating system that contain long strings of NULLs can be stored much more efficiently than other files. To be specific, if a string of NULLs spans an entire allocation block, that whole block is not stored on disk at all. Files where one or more blocks are omitted in this way are called sparse files. The missing blocks are also known as holes.   Sparse files are not the same as compressed files. Sparse files are exactly the same as their nonsparse equivalents when they are read.  Sparse files are generally created by database applications. Whenever a database file is created, it is formatted with NULLs. These fragments might be either filled with allocated or deallocated NULLs.   Flags Flag name Description -a Displays the -a option displays the list of files in the archive, along with their permissions when specified with the -t or -T flag. -B Specifies that the archive should be read from standard input. Normally, the restore operation examines the actual medium to determine the backup format. When using a |  (pipe), this examination cannot occur. As a result, the archive is assumed to be in file system format, and the device is assumed to be standard input (-f -). -b Number  For backups done by name, specifies the number of 512-byte blocks. For backups done by i-node, specifies the number of 1024-byte blocks to read in a single output operation. When the restore operation reads from tape devices, the default is 100 for backups by name and 32 for backups by i-node.   The read size is the number of blocks multiplied by the block size. The default read size for the restore operation reading from tape devices is 51200 (100 × 512) for backups by name and 32768 (32 × 1024) for backups by i-node. The read size must be an even multiple of the tape's physical block size. If the read size is not an even multiple of the tape's physical block size and it is in fixed block mode (nonzero), the restore command tries to determine a valid value for Number. If successful, the restore operation changes Number to the new value, writes a message about the change to standard output, and continues. If unsuccessful in finding a valid value for Number, the restore operation writes an error message to standard error and exits with a nonzero return code. Larger values for the Number parameter result in larger physical transfers from the tape device.   The value of the -b flag is always ignored when the restore command reads from diskette. In this case, the command always reads in clusters that occupy a complete track. -d Indicates that, if the File parameter is a directory, all files in that directory should be restored. This flag can only be used when the archive is in file name format. -e  Restores the nonsparse files because they were archived by the name format of the backup operation for both packed and unpacked files. It is necessary to know the sparseness or nonsparseness of the files before archiving the files, since enabling this flag restores the sparse files as nonsparse.    This flag should be enabled only if the files being restored are nonsparsed, consisting of more than 4K NULLs. If the -e flag is specified during the restore opeation, it successfully restores all normal files normally and nonsparse database files as nonsparse. -E  Extracts beginning at a specified volume number and requires one of the following arguments. If you omit the -E flag, warn is the default behavior.  force Fails the restore operation on a file if the fixed extent size or space reservation of the file cannot be preserved. ignore Ignores any errors in preserving extent attributes. warn Issues a warning if the space reservation or the fixed size of the file cannot be preserved.  -f Device  Specifies the input device. To receive input from a named device, specify the Device variable as a path name (such as /dev/rmt0). To receive input from the standard output device, specify a dash (-)   You can also specify a range of archive devices. The range specification must be in the following format:  /dev/deviceXXX-YYY where XXX and YYY are whole numbers, and XXX must always be less than YYY; for example:  /dev/rfd0-3  All devices in the specified range must be of the same type. For example, you can use a set of 8 mm, 2.3 GB tapes or a set of 1.44 MB diskettes. All tape devices must be set to the same physical tape block size.  If the Device  variable specifies a range, the restore operation automatically goes from one device in the range to the next. After exhausting all of the specified devices, the restore operation halts and requests that new volumes be mounted on the range of devices. -h Restores only the actual directory, not the files contained in it. This flag can only be used when the archive is in file system format. This flag is ignored when used with the -r or -R flag. -i Allows you to interactively restore selected files from a file system archive. The subcommands for the -i  flag are: add [File]: Specifies that the File parameter is added to the list of files to extract.  If File is a directory, that directory and all the  files contained in it are added to the extraction list (unless the -h flag is used). If File is not specified,  the current directory is added to the extraction list.  cd Directory:  Changes the current directory to the specified directory.  delete [File]:  Specifies that  the File parameter is to be removed from the list of  files to be extracted. If File is a directory, that directory  and all the files contained in it are removed from the extraction list (unless the  -h flag is used).  extract:  Restores all the directories and files on the extraction list.   help:  Displays a summary of the subcommands.    ls [Directory]:  Displays the directories and files contained within the Directory parameter. Directory names are displayed with a slash (/) after the name. Files and directories, within the specified directory, that are on the extraction list are displayed with an asterick (*) before the name. If verbose mode is on, the  i-node number of the files and directories is also displayed. If the Directory parameter is not specified, the current directory is used .  pwd:  Displays the full path name of the current directory.   quit:  Causes the restore operation to exit immediately. Any files on the extraction list are not restored.  setmodes:  Sets the owner, mode, and time for all directories added to the extraction list.  verbose:  Causes the ls subcommand to display the i-node number of files and directories.  Additional information about each file is also displayed as it is extracted from the archive.    -l Displays a detailed list of files, which includes the time stamp, file permissions, file size, owner, and group  when specified with the -t or -T flag.. The -l option overrides the -a option. -M Sets the access and modification times of restored files to the time of restoration. You can specify the -M flag only when you are restoring individually named files and only if the -x or -X flags are also specified. When the -M flag is not specified, the restore operation maintains the access and modification times as they appear on the backup medium. -m Renames restored files to the file's i-node number as it exists on the archive. This is useful if a few files are being restored and you want these files restored under a different file name. Since any restored archive members are renamed to their i-node numbers, directory hierarchies and links are not preserved. Directories and hard links are restored as regular files. The -m flag is used when the archive is in file system format. -n By default the restore operation restores any Access Control List (ACL)s, Printing Color Files (PCL)s, or named extended attributes in the archive. The -n flag causes the restore operation to skip over any ACLs, PCLs, or named extended attributes in the archive and not restore them. -Pstring Restore only the file attributes. This flag does not restore the file contents. If the file specified does not exist in the target directory path, the file is not created. This flag restores file attributes selectively depending on the flags specified in the string parameter. The String parameter can be a combination of the following characters:  A Restore all attributes.  a Restore only the permissions of the files. o Restore only the ownership of the files. t Restore only the time stamp of the files. c Restore only the ACL attributes of the files   Among the existing flags for the restore command, flags v, h, b, s, f, B, d, and q are valid with the P flag. The P flag can be used with both file name and file system archives. If the File parameter is a symbolic link, then the metadata of the target file is modified and not that of the symbolic link.   Usage of -P flag overwrites the attributes of files owned by another user when run by the superuser. -Q For backups done by name, specifies that the command should exit upon encountering any type of error rather than attempt to recover and continue processing the archive. -q Specifies that the first volume is ready to use and that the restore operation should not prompt you to mount the volume and press Enter. If the archive spans multiple volumes, the restore command prompts you for the subsequent volumes. -r Restores all files in a file system archive. The -r flag is only used to restore complete level 0 backups or to restore incremental backups after a level 0 backup is restored. The restoresymtable file is used by the restore operation to pass information between incremental restore operations. This file should be removed after the last incremental backup is restored. The File parameter is ignored when using the -r flag. -R Requests a specific volume of a multiple-volume, file system archive. The -R flag allows a previously interrupted restore operation to be restarted. The File parameter is ignored when using the -R flag. Once restarted, the restore command behavior is the same as with the -r flag. -s SeekBackup Specifies the backup to seek and restore on a multiple-backup tape archive. The -s flag is only applicable when the archive is written to a tape device. To use the -s flag properly, a no-rewind-on-close and no-retension-on-open tape device, such as /dev/rmt0.1 or /dev/rmt0.5, must be specified. If the -s flag is specified with a rewind tape device, the restore command displays an error message and exits with a nonzero return code. If a no-rewind tape device is used and the -s flag is not specified, a default value of -s 1 is used. The value of the SeekBackup parameter must be in the range of 1 to 100 inclusive. It is necessary to use a no-rewind-on-close, no-retension-on-open tape device because of the behavior of the -s flag. The value specified with -s is relative to the position of the tape's read/write head and not to an archive's position on the tape. For example, to restore the first, second, and fourth backups from a multiple-backup tape archive, the respective values for the -s flag would be -s 1, -s 1, and -s 2. -t Displays information about the backup archive. If the archive is in file system format, a list of files found on the archive is written to standard output. The name of each file is preceded by the i-node number of the file as it exists on the archive. The file names displayed are relative to the root (/) directory of the file system that was backed up. If the File parameter is not specified, all the files on the archive are listed. If the File parameter is used, then just that file is listed. If the File parameter refers to a directory, all the files contained in that directory are listed. If the archive is in file name format, information contained in the volume header is written to standard error. This flag can be used to determine if the archive is in file name or file system format. -T Displays information about the backup archive. If the archive is in file name format, the information contained in the volume header is written to standard error, and a list of files found on the archive is written to standard output. The File parameter is ignored for file name archives. If the archive is in file system format, the behavior is identical to the -t flag. -v Displays additional information when restoring. If the archive is in file name format and either the -x or -T flag is specified, the size of the file as it exists on the archive is displayed in bytes. Directory, block, or character device files are archived with a size of 0. Symbolic links are listed with the size of the symbolic link. Hard links are listed with the size of the file, which is how they are archived. Once the archive is read, a total of these sizes is displayed. If the archive is in file system format, directory and nondirectory archive members are distinguished. -x  Restores individually named files specified by the File parameter. If the File parameter is not specified, all the archive members are restored. If the File parameter is a directory and the archive is in file name format, only the directory is restored. If the File parameter is a directory and the archive is in file system format, all the files contained in the directory are restored. The file names specified by the File parameter must be the same as the names shown by the restore -T flag. Files are restored with the same name they were archived with. If the file name was archived using a relative path name (./filename), the file is restored relative to the current directory. If the archive is in file system format, files are restored relative to the current directory.  The restore command automatically creates any needed directories. When using this flag to restore file system backups, you are prompted to enter the beginning volume number.  The restore command allows for shell-style pattern matching metacharacters to be used when specifying files for archive extraction. The rules for matching metacharacters are the same as those used in shell pathname "globbing," namely:  asterick* (* ) Matches zero or more characters, but not a . (period) or / (slash). question mark (?) Matches any single character, but not a . (period) or / (slash). brackets ([ ]) Matches any one of the characters enclosed within the brackets. If a pair of characters separated by a dash are contained within the brackets, the pattern matches any character that lexically falls between the two characters in the current local. Additionally, a . (period) or a / (slash) within the brackets will not match a . (period) or a /  (slash) in a file name.  backslash (\) Matches the immediately following character, preventing its possible interpretation as a metacharacter. -X VolumeNumber Begins restoring from the specified volume of a multiple-volume, file name backup. Once started, the restore command behavior is the same as with the -x flag. The -X flag applies only to file name archives.  -y Continues restoring when tape errors are encountered. Normally, the restore command asks you whether or not to continue. In either case, all data in the read buffer is replaced with zeros. The -y flag applies only when the archive is in file system format. ? Displays a usage message.   Exit Status This command returns the following exit values:  Return code Description 0   Successful completion. >0   An error occurred.   Examples To list the names of files in either a file name or file system archive on diskette device /dev/rfd0, type the following command:   restore -Tq  The archive is read from the /dev/rfd0 default restore device. The names of all the files and directories contained in the archive are displayed. For file system archives, the file name is preceded by the i-node number of the file as it exists on the archive. The -q flag tells the restore command that the first volume is available and is ready to be read. As a result, you are not prompted to mount the first volume. To restore a specific file, type the following command:   restore -xvqf myhome.bkup system.data  This command extracts the file system.data into the current directory from the archive myhome.bkup. The archive in this example is in the current directory. File and directory names must be specified as they are displayed when using the -T flag. The -v flag displays additional information during the extraction. This example applies to both file name and file system archives. To restore a specific file from tape into the virtual media repository, type the following command:  restore -xvqf /dev/rmt0 /var/vio/VMLibrary/media_file To restore a specific directory and the contents of that directory from a file name archive, type the following command:  restore -xdvqf /dev/rmt0 /home/mike/tools  The -x flag extracts files by their file name. The -d flag tells the restore command to extract all the files and subdirectories in the /home/mike/tools directory. File and directory names must be specified as they are displayed when using the -T flag. If the directories do not exist, they are created. To restore a specific directory and the contents of that directory from a file system archive, type the following command:   restore -xvqf /dev/rmt0 /home/mike/tools  This command extracts files by file name. File and directory names must be specified as they are displayed when using the -T flag. If the directories do not exist, they are created. To restore an entire file system archive, type the following command:   restore -rvqf /dev/rmt0  This command restores the entire file system archived on tape device /dev/rmt0 the current directory. This example assumes you are in the root directory of the file system to be restored. If the archive is part of a set of incremental file system archives, the archives should be restored in increasing backup-level order beginning with level 0 (for example, 0, 1, 2). To restore the fifth and ninth backups from a single-volume, multiple-backup tape, type the following command:  restore -xvqs 5 -f/dev/rmt0.1  restore -xvqs 4 -f/dev/rmt0.1 The first command extracts all files from the fifth archive on the multiple-backup tape specified by /dev/rmt0.1. The .1 designator specifies that the tape device will not be retensioned when it is opened and that it will not be rewound when it is closed. It is necessary to use a no-rewind-on-close, no-retension-on-open tape device because of the behavior of the -s flag. The second command extracts all the files from the fourth archive (relative to the current location of the tape head on the tape). After the fifth archive has been restored, the tape read/write head is in a position to read the archive. Since you want to extract the ninth archive on the tape, you must specify a value of 4 with the -s flag. This is because the -s flag is relative to your position on the tape and not to an archive's position on the tape. The ninth archive is the fourth archive from your current position on the tape. To restore the fourth backup, which begins on the sixth tape on a 10-tape multiple-backup archive, put the sixth tape into the tape drive and type the following command:   restore -xcs 2 -f /dev/rmt0.1 /home/mike/manual/chap3  Assuming the fourth backup is the second backup on the sixth tape, specifying -s 2 advances the tape head to the beginning of the second backup on this tape. The restore command then restores the specified file from the archive. If the backup continues onto subsequent volumes and the file has not been restored, the restore command instructs you to insert the next volume until the end of the backup is reached. The -f flag specifies the no-rewind, no-retension tape device name.    The -s flag specifies the backup number relative to the tape inserted in the tape drive, not to the overall 10-tape archive. To improve the performance on streaming tape devices, pipe the dd command to the restore command and type the following command:   dd if=/dev/rmt0 bs=64b | restore -xf- -b64  The dd command reads the archive from the tape using a block size of 64 512-byte blocks and writes the archive to standard output. The restore command reads the standard input using a block size of 64 512-byte blocks. The value of the block size used by the dd command to read the archive from the tape must be an even multiple of the block size that was used to create the tape with the backup command. For example, the following backup command could be used to create the archive that this example extracts:   find /home -print | backup -ivqf/dev/rmt0 -b64  This example applies to archives in file name format only. If the archive was in file system format, the restore command should include the -B flag. To improve the performance of the restore command on 9348 Magnetic Tape Unit Model 12, you can change the block size by typing the following command:   chdev -l DeviceName -a BlockSize=32k To restore nonsparse database files, type the following command:   restore  -xef  /dev/rmt0 To restore files that were archived as sparse, type the following command:  restore  -xf  /dev/rmt0 To restore only the permissions of the files from the archive, type the following command:  restore -Pa -vf /dev/rmt0 To restore only the ACL attributes of the files from the archive, type the following command:    restore -Pc -vf /dev/rmt0 To view the table of contents along with the file permissions, type the following command:   restore -Ta -vf /dev/rmt0 To view the table of contents of a file name archive along with the time stamps and file permissions, type the following command:   restore -Tl -vf /dev/rmt0 To view the table of contents of a file system archive along with the time stamps and file permissions, type the following command:   restore -tl -vf /dev/rmt0   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 restorevgstruct command Purpose Restores the user volume group.   Syntax restorevgstruct { -ls | -vg VolumeGroupLabel  [ DiskName ... ] }   Description The restorevgstruct command restores the structure of a previously saved user volume group.  If the -ls flag is specified, a list of previously-saved volume groups and the date each volume group was saved is displayed.  This command does not work on rootvg.   Flags Flag name Description DiskName... Specifies the names of disk devices to be used instead of the 	disk devices saved in the volume group structure. Target disk devices must be defined as empty physical volumes; that is, they must contain a physical volume identifier and must not belong to a volume group. If the target disk devices belong to a volume group, they must be removed from the volume group using the reducevg command.  -ls Displays a list of previously saved volume groups. -vg Specifies the name of the VolumeGroup to restore.    Exit Status See .   Examples To restore the volume group myvg, onto the hdisk2 and hdisk3 disks, enter: restorevgstruct myvg hdisk2 hdisk3   To list all previously saved volume groups, enter: restorvgstruct -ls The message generated would be similar to:  -rw-r--r--   1 root     system        51200 Jun 18 10:53 myvg.data -rw-r--r--   1 root     system        51200 Jun 18 10:53 myvg2.data   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 savevgstruct command Purpose Backs up a volume group.    Syntax savevgstruct  VolumeGroupLabel   Description The savevgstruct command will make a backup of a volume group structure.   Exit Status See .   Examples To save the structure of the user defined volume group myvg, enter: savevgstruct myvg      Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 shutdown command Purpose Ends system operation.   Syntax shutdown [ ] [  ]    Description The shutdown command halts the operating system. When the shut down is complete, you receive a shutdown completion message.   Do not attempt to restart the system or turn off the system before the shutdown completion message is displayed; otherwise, file system damage can result.   The -force flag is used to bypass the following user prompt:  "Shutting down the VIOS could affect Client Partitions. Continue [y|n]?"   Flags Flag name Description -force Begins a system shut down without a user prompt. -restart Restarts the system after being shut down.   Exit Status See .   Security This command can only be run by the prime administrator (padmin).   Examples To shut down the system, type the following command: shutdown To restart the system, type the following command: shutdown -restart To shut down the system and restart, without the user prompt, type the following command: shutdown -force -restart   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 showmount command Purpose Displays a list of  exported directories.   Syntax showmount Host   Description The showmount command displays a list of all exported directories from a specified machine in the Host parameter.    Parameters Parameter Description Host Host name of the systems to display exported directories.   Exit Status See .   Examples To display all exported directories on the host middelburg, type: showmount middelburg   Related Information The  command and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 startsysdump command Purpose Starts a kernel dump to the primary dump device.   Syntax startsysdump   Description The startsysdump command provides a command line interface to start a kernel dump to the primary dump device. Any previous kernel dumps will be erased before the dump is created. During a kernel dump, the following values can be displayed on the three-digit terminal display as follows. The user will be required the run the snap command to obtain the system dump.   Value Description 0c0 Indicates that the dump completed successfully.  0c1 Indicates that an I/O occurred during the dump. 0c2 Indicates that the dump is in progress. 0c4 Indicates that the dump is too small.  0c5  Indicates a dump internal error. 0c6 Prompts you to make the secondary dump device ready.    0c7  Indicates that the dump process is waiting for a response from the remote host. 0c8  Indicates that the dump was disabled. In this case, no dump device was designated in the system configuration object for dump devices. The startsysdump command halts, and the system continues running. 0c9 Indicates that a dump is in progress.  0cc Indicates that the system switched to the secondary dump device after attempting a dump to the primary device.   When the dump completes, the system reboots.   Exit Status See .   Examples To start a kernel dump, type: startsysdump   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 stoptrace command Purpose Stops the trace function.   Syntax stoptrace   Description The stoptrace command ends a trace session.   Exit Status See .   Examples To end a trace session, type: stoptrace   Related Information The  command and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 svmon command Purpose Captures and analyzes a snapshot of virtual memory. Syntax   svmon   [   ] [   ] [   [  ] ] [  [  |  ] ]    svmon   [ -O  ] [ -i  [  ] ]    svmon  [ -O  ] [ -i  [  ] ] [ -@ [ ALL |  ] ]    svmon  [  ] [ -O  ] [ [ -t  ] [ -i  [  ] ] [ -@ [ ALL |  ] ]    svmon  [  ] [ -O  ] [ -t  ] [ -i  [  ] ] [ -@ [ ALL |  ] ]     svmon  [  ] [ -O  ] [ -t  ] [ -i  [  ] ] [ -@ [ ALL |  ] ]    svmon  [  ] [ -O  ] [ -t  ] [ -i  [  ] ] [ -@ [ ALL |  ] ]    svmon  [  ] [ -O  ] [ -a  ] [ -t  ] [ -i  [  ] ] [ -@ [ ALL |  ] ]    svmon  [   ] [ -i  [  ] ] [ -c <  > ] [ -O  ] Description The svmon command displays information about the current state of memory. The displayed information does not constitute a true snapshot of memory, however, because the svmon command runs at user level with interrupts enabled.  If you specify no flag, the svmon command, by default, reports real memory at the system level.   You can see memory consumption details and generate the following types of reports. To see more information about a type of report, select one of the following links:   The output of these reports can be in compact format or long format. To generate compact format report, specify the -O flag. If you do not specify the -O flag, the report is in long format. Command report The command report displays the statistics of memory use for the specified command. To print this report, specify the -C flag. The command report can be in compact format or in long format: Item Description Compact report A one line summary for each command. To set compact report as the default format, specify the -O flag. Long report A multiple lines report for each command that contains a summary, a size-per-page report, and the details of the segments. To set long report as the default format, do not specify the -O flag. Detailed segment report The detailed segment report displays detailed information about the primary segments that are specified. To print the detailed segment report, specify the -D flag.   The detailed segment report is in long report format only.  Global report The global report displays the statistics of the real memory and paging space that are in use for the whole system. If you do not specify any flag, the global report is the default format of report that the svmon command generates.  To print the global report, specify the -G flag.   The global report can be in compact format or long format: Item Description Compact report A report on only the main metrics of the system. This report is one line with a maximum of 160 characters. Long report A summary of memory, page size, and affinity domain. The report is multiple lines, which is the default format of global report.  By default, the following metrics are displayed:  The memory metric displays the memory consumption of the machine. The Page Size metric displays the memory consumption of the Page Size. The Affinity Domain metric reports the memory affinity by affinity domain. Process report The process report displays the memory use for the specified active process. If you do not specify a list of processes, the svmon command displays the memory use statistics for all active processes.  To print the process report, specify the -P flag.  The process report can be in compact format or long format: Item Description Compact report A one line report for each process. To set the compact report as the default format, specify the -O flag. Long report A multiple lines summary for each process. To set the long report as the default format, do not specify the -O flag. This report contains a summary for each process, a per-page-size report, and the details of the segments.  The svmon command does not show the decrease in the memory usage count when the application releases the memory. When the memory is released from the application, it goes back to the memory free list of the per-process. The svmon command accounts for the memory that is released as the allocated memory for that application. Segment report The segment report displays the statistics of memory use for the specified segments. To display the statistics for all of the defined segments, do not specify any list.   To print the segment report, specify the -S flag.   The segment report includes metrics for each specified segment. The report contains several lines of metrics for each segment. User report The user report displays the statistics of memory use for the specified users (login names). To display the statistics for all of the users, do not specify any list of login names.   To print the user report, specify the -U flag.   The user report can be in compact format or long format: Item Description Compact report A one line report for each user. To set the compact report as the default format, specify the -O flag. Long report A multiple lines summary for each user. To set the long report as the default format, do not specify the -O flag. This report contains a summary for each user, a per-page-size report, and the details of the segments. Workload management class report The workload management class report displays statistics of memory use for the specified workload management classes. To display the statistics for all of the defined classes, do not specify any class.   To print the workload management class report, specify the -W flag.  Restriction: This report is available only when the  is running. If the  is not running, the following message is displayed and no statistics are reported:  WLM must be started If the  is running in passive mode, the svmon command displays the following message before displaying the statistics:  WLM is running in passive mode  The workload management class report can be in compact format or long format: Item Description Compact report A one line report for each class. To set the compact report as the default format, specify the -O flag. Long report A multiple lines summary for each class. To set the long report as the default format, do not specify the -O flag. This report contains a summary for each class, a per-page size report, and the details of the segments. Workload management tier report The workload management tier report displays information about the tiers, such as the tier number, the superclass name, and the total number of pages in real memory from segments belonging to the tier.  To print the tier report, specify the -T flag. Only the long report format is supported.  Restriction: This report is available only when the  is running. If the  is not running, the following message is displayed and no statistics are reported:  WLM must be started If the  is running in passive mode, the svmon command displays the following message before displaying the statistics:  WLM is running in passive mode XML report You can use the svmon command with an -X flag to generate a report in XML format. The XML report contains data of the global environment, the processes, the segments, the users, the workload management classes, and the commands running on the system.  The report is by default printed to the standard output. To print the output to a file named , specify the -O  flag. The extension of the output file will be .svm.  The .svm file uses an XML Schema Definition (XSD) that the /usr/lib/perf/svmon_schema.xsd file defines. You can use the XML data in the XML reports to build custom applications because the schema is self-documented.  In the XML report, if you do not specify the -O affinity argument, or set it to the off value, only the domain affinity at system level is reported. Flags If no command line flag is given, then the -G flag is the default.   Item Description  [ ALL |  ]  Displays report for the .   The -@ ALL option specifies to display the report for all of the s starting with the global report, and to process all of the available s, sorting them by the  name.  When you specify a list of  names in the  parameter, the  information is displayed in a header, and the report is displayed without adding  information. All information displayed is restricted to the  that was processed and has meaning only inside the . For example, the  displayed is virtual , which is the  inside the . The same rule applies to the  options. Each  name in the list is processed in the given order and each  report is separated by the  header.  When you do not specify a list, the command adds  information to existing reports. The pid section and segments section of the report contain the  name when one is available. Virtual  information might also be displayed.  When all of the keywords are used, the  command processes all of the available s, sorting them by the  name.   The -@ flag is not supported when executed within a . -a  Restricts the scope to the subclasses of the supclassname parameter (in the Tier report that is returned with the -T flag).  -c <  > Adds a comment, specified by the  parameter, into the XML report. Use the -c flag with the -X flag.  -C  Displays memory use statistics for the processes running the commands that are specified by the commands parameter. -D  Displays memory use statistics for the segments that the sids parameter specifies, and a detail status of all of the frames of each segment. -G Displays a global report. -i  [  ] Displays statistics repetitively.  The svmon command collects and prints statistics in the interval that the interval parameter specifies.   The numintervals parameter specifies the number of repetitions. If the parameter is not specified, the svmon command runs until you interrupt it (Ctrl+C).    The observed interval might be larger than the specified interval because it might take a few seconds to collect statistics for some options. -o  Specifies the output file with the  parameter for XML reports. Use this flag with the -X flag. -O  Changes the content and presentation of the reports that the svmon command generates. You can specifies values to the  parameter to modify the output.  To overwrite the default values that are defined previously by the -O  flag, you can define the .svmonrc configuration file in the directory where the svmon command is launched. -P [  ] Displays the memory-usage statistics for the processes that the pids parameter specifies. -S [  ] Displays the memory-usage statistics for segments that the sids parameter specifies. The sids parameter is a hexadecimal value. The segment IDs (SIDs) that are specified must be of primary segments. If you do not specify a list of SIDs, the statistics of memory use are displayed for all of the defined segments. -t  Displays the top object in the count parameter to be printed. -T [  ] Displays the memory-usage statistics of all of the classes of the tier numbers that the tiers parameter specifies. If you do not specify a list of tiers, the statistics of memory use are displayed for all of the defined tiers. -U [  ] Displays the memory-usage statistics for the login name that the lognames parameter specifies. If you do not specify a list of login identifiers, the statistics of the memory use are displayed for all of the defined login identifiers. -W [  ] Displays the memory-usage statistics for the  class that the classnames parameter specifies. If you do not specify a list of class names, the statistics of memory usage are displayed for all of the defined class names. -X Generates the XML report. Parameters Item Description Specifies the commands to be reported in the command report ( -C ). The value of the commands parameter is a string. You can specify more than one command. The value of the  parameter is the exact base name of an executable file.  Specifies the content and presentation of each report. Use this parameter with the -O flag.  The values of the  parameter must be separated by commas, or enclosed in quotation marks (“ ”) and separated by commas or spaces. The following values are valid to the  parameter.   The scope specifies the reports that support the value.  activeuser = [ on | off ] The activeuser argument specifies that the svmon command displays only the active user.  Default value: off Scope: User report ( - U )  You can specify the following values to the activeuser option: on Displays only the active user. off Displays all of the user. affinity = [ on | detail | off ] The affinity argument specifies that the svmon command displays the memory affinity at process level or segment level.  Default value: off Scope: Global report ( -G ), process report ( -P ), and segment report ( -S )  You can specify the following values to the affinity option: on Displays memory affinity at process level detail Displays memory affinity at segment level off Does not display the memory affinity  In the XML report, if you do not specify the -O affinity argument, or set it to the off value, only the domain affinity at system level is reported.   Use the -O affinity = detail argument with caution. commandline = [ on | off ] The commandline argument specifies that the svmon command displays the command that is used for the current report.  Default value: off Scope: All reports  You can specify the following values to the commandline option: on Displays the command that is used for the current report off Does not display the command that is used for the current report    filename = [ on | off ] The filename argument specifies that the svmon command displays the file names of each file segment.  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the filename option:  on Displays the file names of each file segment off Does not displays the file name of each file segment   Use the filename argument with caution. filtercat = [ off exclusive kernel shared unused unattached ] The filtercat argument specifies that the svmon command filters the segments by category.  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the filtercat option to filter the segments by category:   kernel Filters the kernel segments. exclusive Filters the exclusive segments. The exclusive segments are used by only one process, except the shared-memory segments that are always reported as either shared or unattached.  shared Filters the shared segments. The shared segments are used by more than one process, or shared-memory segments used by at least one process. unused Filters the unused segments. The unused segments are not used by any processes. unattached Filters the unused shared-memory segments. The unattached segments are shared-memory segments that are not used by any process. off Deactivates the filter. The off option is the same as the command -O filtercat = "kernel exclusive share unused".   The filtercat option changes the value of the reported basic metrics in the summary header because it adds or removes segments from the report.    filterpgsz = [ off s m L S ] The filterpgsz argument specifies that the svmon command filters the segments by page size.  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), detailed segment report ( -D ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the filterpgsz option to filter the segments by page size: s Filters the segments that are 4 KB (small) in page size m Filters the segments that are 64 KB (medium) in page size L Filters the segments that are 16 MB (large) in page size S Filters the segments that are 16 GB (supreme) in page size off Deactivates the filterpgsz option   The filterpgsz argument changes the values of the reported metrics in the summary header, because it adds or removes segments from the report.  To filter segments of different page sizes, you can specify various parameters in the form of <><>.   For example, to filter the segments with small page size and the segments with small and medium page sizes, enter the following command: svmon -O filterpgsz="sm s" filterprop = [ off notempty data text ] The filterprop argument specifies that the svmon command filters the segments report by property.  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the filterprop option to filter the segments by property: notempty Filters the segments with value that is in use and is not equal to zero  data Filters the data segments, which are computational text Filters the text segments, which are not computational off Deactivates the filterprop option   The filterprop argument changes the value of the reported basic metrics in the summary header because it adds or removes segments from the report.    filtertype = [ off working persistent client ] The filtertype argument specifies that the svmon command filters the segments by type.  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the filtertype option to filter the segments by type: working Filters the working segments persistent Filters the persistent segments, such as the segments on journaled file system (JFS) client Filters the client segments, such as the segments on enhance journaled file system (JFS2) or network file system (NFS) off Deactivates the filtertype option, which is the same as the -O filtertype = "working persistent client" command   The filtertype argument changes the value of the reported basic metrics in the summary header, because it adds or removes segments from the report. format = [ 80 | 160 | nolimit ]  The format argument specifies the maximum width, in characters, for the output of the svmon command.  Default value: 80 Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the format option: 80 Limits the width of the output to 80 characters. In a process report, some fields are truncated. In a segment report, some fields are displayed on separate lines. 160 Limits the width of the output to 160 characters. In a process report, some fields are truncated. In a segment report, some fields are displayed on separate lines. nolimit Does not limit the width in character. Does not truncate fields or display them in separate lines. Some columns of the report might be shifted.   You can use the summary argument to force the value of the format option to 160 characters. frame = [ on | off ] The frame argument specifies that the svmon command displays the information per frame.  Default value: off Scope: Detailed segment report ( -D )  You can specify the following values to the frame option:  on Displays the information per frame off Displays the report automatically    mapping = [ on | off ] The mapping argument specifies that the svmon command displays the source segments that are associated with the segments that are created by the mmap subroutine (also known as the mmap segments). When the source segments do not pertain to the process address space and the mapping = on value is specified, the source segments are integrated into the report and are flagged with an asterisk (*).  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the mapping option: on Displays the source segments that are associated to the segments created by the mmap subroutine off Does not display the source segments that are associated with the segments created by the mmap subroutine   The mapping argument changes the values of the reported metrics in the summary header because it adds or removes segments from the report. mpss = [ on | off ]  The mpss argument breaks down the value of the mixed page size segment into individual page sizes.  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the mpss option:  on Breaks down the value of the mixed page size segment into individual page sizes off Does not break down the value of the mixed page size segment overwrite = [ on | off ] The overwrite argument overwrites the XML file that the svmon command produced.  Default value: on Scope: XML report ( -X )  You can specify the following values to the overwrite option: on Overwrites the XML file that the svmon command generated off Does not overwrite the XML file    pgsz = [ on | off ]  The pgsz argument specifies that the svmon command displays the sections per page size.  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the pgsz option: on Displays the sections per page size off Displays the report automatically pidlist = [ on | number | off ] The pidlist argument specifies that the svmon command displays a list of process IDs (PIDs) or the number of different PIDs for each segment.  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the filename option: on Displays a list of process IDs for each segment.  For special segments, a label is displayed instead a list of process IDs. The following labels are displayed: System segment: Labels the segments that are flagged as system segments Unused segment: Labels the segments that are not used by any existing processes. For example, persistent segments that are relative to the files that are no longer in use. Unattached segment: Labels the shared-memory segments that are not used by any existing processes.  Shared-library text: Labels the segments that contain a shared library. The shared library can be used by most of the processes. This label prevents the display of a long list of processes. number Displays the number of different process IDs for each segment. off Does not displays the list or number of process IDs for each segment.    process = [ on | off ] The process argument specifies that the svmon command displays the list of the processes that belong to the entity.   Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the process option:  on Displays the list of the processes that belong to the entity off Does not display the list of processes that belong to the entity range = [ on | off ] The range argument specifies that the svmon command displays the ranges of pages within the segments that have been allocated.  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the range option:  on Displays the ranges of pages within the allocated segments off Does not display the ranges of pages within the allocated segments    segment = [ on | category | off ] The segment argument specifies that the svmon command displays the segment statistics for entities.   Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the segment option: on Displays a unique segment list. The segments are sorted by the values of the sortseg argument. category Groups the segments in three categories: system, exclusive, and shared. The segments in each category are sorted by the values of the sortseg argument. off Does not display the segment lists. shmid = [ on | off ] The shmid argument displays the shared-memory ID that is associated with a shared-memory segment.   The shmid argument cannot work with a .  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the shmid option: on Displays the shared-memory ID associated to a shared-memory segment off Does not display the shared-memory ID associated to a shared-memory segment   Use the shmid argument with caution.    sortentity = [ inuse | pin | pgsp | virtual ] The sortentity argument specifies the method for the svmon command in sorting the reports.   Default value: inuse Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W   You can specify the following values to the sortentity option to sort the reports: inuse Sorts the reports in decreasing order of real memory consumption pin Sorts the reports in decreasing order of pinned memory consumption pgsp Sorts the reports in decreasing order of paging space consumption virtual Sorts the reports in decreasing order of virtual memory consumption sortseg = [ inuse | pin | pgsp | virtual ] The sortseg argument specifies the method for the svmon command in sorting the segment reports.   Default value: inuse Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the sortseg option to sort the segment reports: inuse Sorts the segments in decreasing order of real memory consumption pin Sorts the segments in decreasing order of pinned memory consumption pgsp Sorts the segments in decreasing order of paging space consumption virtual Sorts the segments in decreasing order of virtual memory consumption subclass = [ on | off ] The subclass specifies that the svmon command displays the statistics of memory use for the subclass of the workload management classes.  Default value: off Scope: Workload management tier report ( -T ) and workload management class report ( -W ) You can specify the following values to the subclass options: on Displays the statistics of memory use of the workload management classes' subclasses off Does not display the statistics of memory use of the workload management classes' subclasses    summary = [ basic | longreal | ame | longame ]  The summary argument specifies the format to display the summary for the svmon command.  Default value: basic Scope: Command report ( -C ), global report ( -G ), process report ( -P ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W ) summary = [ ame | longame ] is available only with global report (-G).  You can specify the following values to the summary option: basic Displays the basic headers for the svmon command longreal Displays the real memory information in a long format (160 columns per line) ame Displays the Active Memory™ Expansion information (in an Active Memory Expansion enabled system). longame Displays the Active Memory Expansion information (in an Active Memory Expansion enabled system) in a long format. svmonalloc = [ on | off ] The svmonalloc argument specifies that the svmon command displays the maximum size of the memory that it dynamically allocated during its processing.  Default value: off Scope: All reports  You can specify the following values to the svmonalloc options: on Displays the maximum size of the allocated memory off Does not display the maximum size of the allocated memory  timestamp = [ on | off ] The timestamp argument specifies that the svmon command displays the timestamp at the beginning of the report.  Default value: off Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the timestamp option:  on Displays the time stamp at the beginning of the report off Does not display the time stamp at the beginning of the report    tmem  = [ on | off ] The tmem argument specifies the svmon command to append the true memory details. Default value: on  Scope: Global report (-G). You can specify the following values to the tmem option.  on Displays the true memory information at the end of the report  off Does not display the true memory information. unit = [ auto | page | KB | MB | GB | TB ] The unit argument modifies the metrics unit of the report.   Default value: auto Scope: Command report ( -C ), process report ( -P ), segment report ( -S ), workload management tier report ( -T ), user report ( -U ), and workload management class report ( -W )  You can specify the following values to the unit option:  auto Expresses the values in the most appropriate unit with at most three significant digits. The unit used in the report is specified for each metric.  page Expresses the values in 4 KB page units. The unit used in the report is specified in the report header. KB Expresses the values in kilobytes (KB)  MB Expresses the values in megabytes (MB) GB Expresses the values in gigabytes (GB) TB Expresses the values in terabytes (TB)   To overwrite the default values that are defined previously by the -O  flag, you can define the .svmonrc configuration file in the directory where the svmon command is launched. Specifies the top object to be printed. Use the  parameter with the -T flag. Specifies the interval for the svmon command to collect and print statistics. Use the  parameter with the -i flag. Specifies the number of repetitions for the svmon command to collect and print statistics when the  parameter is specified. Use the  parameter with the -i  option. If the parameter is not specified, the svmon command runs until you interrupt it (Ctrl+C).  ALL Specifies that the -@ flag displays the report for all of the s starting with the global report, and then process all of the available s, sorting them by the  name. Specifies the  whose information is to be displayed. When you specify the -@  option, all of the information displayed is restricted to the  that the  parameter specifies, and has meaning only inside the . Each  name in the list is processed in the given order and each  report is separated by the  header. Specifies the segment IDs (SIDs). The SIDs must be primary segments. Specifies the process IDs (PIDs). The value of the pids parameter is a decimal value. If you do not supply any list of process IDs (PIDs), the statistics of memory use are displayed for all active processes. Use the  parameter with the -P flag. Specifies the login names. The value of the  parameter is a string. It is an exact login name. If you do not specify any lists of login identifiers, the statistics of the memory use are displayed for all of the defined login identifiers. Use the  parameter with the -U flag. Specifies the  class. The value of the classnames parameter is a string. It is the exact name of a class. For a subclass, the name should be in the form superclassname.subclassname. Specifies a tier number for the classes. If you do not specify a list of tiers, the statistics of memory use are displayed for all of the defined tiers. Use the  parameter with the -T flag. Specifies the name of the superclass that the subclasses are restricted to. You cannot specify a list of classes for this flag. Specifies the name of the output file. It is an alpha-numeric string. The suffix of the output file name is .svm. It is automatically added to the file name if you do not specify the suffix. Use the  parameter with the -o flag and the -X flag. Specifies the string to add in the <CollectionHeader><Comment> tag of the XML report. Use the  parameter with the -X flag and the -c flag. Security Any user can run the svmon command. If the user is not a root user, the view will be limited to the user's own processes.   If  is activated and the  role is attributed to a user, then that user can see the same view that the root user does. Examples To display global statistics in a one line format every minute for 30 minutes, enter the following command: # svmon -G -O summary=longreal -i 60 30 To display global statics with automatic unit selection, a time stamp, per page size data, and detailed affinity information, enter the following command: # svmon -G -O unit=auto,timestamp=on,pgsz=on,affinity=detail To display global statistics for the system and all of its s in a compact format, enter the following command: # svmon -G -O summary=longreal -@ ALL To display the memory consumption in megabytes (MB) of all processes in a compact report, enter the following command: # svmon -P -O summary=basic,unit=MB To display the memory consumption of all processes according to the number of virtual pages, and sort the segments for each process by the number of pages in the paging space, enter the following command: # svmon -P -O segment=on,sortentity=virtual,sortseg=pgsp To display the memory consumption of process 123456 in full detail, enter the following command: # svmon -P 123456 -O segment=on,pidlist=on,range=on,mapping=on,shmid=on,filename=on,affinity=detail To display the top 10 system segments sorted by the number of pages in real memory, enter the following command: # svmon -S -t 10 -O filtercat=kernel,sortseg=inuse To display all of the segments that are not attached to a process, enter the following command: # svmon -S -O filtercat=unattached To display only 16 MB segments with their address ranges, enter the following command: # svmon -S -O filterpgsz=L -O range=on In the global , to display the  name that each segment belongs to, enter the following command: # svmon -S -@ To display the memory consumption of all Oracle processes in a compact report for only the shared segments, enter the following command: # svmon -C oracle -O summary=basic,filtercat=shared To display the top 10 users running the processes that consume the most memory every minute, enter the following command: # svmon -U -t 10 -O summary=basic -i 60 To display the memory use statistics for the pconsole user, including the list of the process identifiers, and with the segments sorted into categories, enter the following command: # svmon -U pconsole -O segment=category,pidlist=on To display the memory use for the Mysupclass superclass with its subclasses, enter the following command: # svmon -W Mysupclass -O subclass=on To display the memory use for the 0 tier subclasses of the Mysupclass superclass, enter the following command: # svmon -T 0 -a Mysupclass To display the frames that belong to the 36cfb segment with frame level details, enter the following command: # svmon -D 36cfb -O frame=on To generate an XML report in the lpar01.svm file, enter the following command: # svmon -X -o lpar01.svm # svmon -X -o lpar01 To generate an XML report with affinity domain details, enter the following command: # svmon -X -o lpar_affinity -O affinity=on To generate an XML report with affinity domain details at the segment level, enter the following command: # svmon -X -o lpar_affinitydet -O affinity=detail To display global statistics with memory compression details along with true memory snapshot at the end, enter the following command:  # svmon -G -O summary=ame To display global statistics with memory compression details with true memory details turned-off, enter the following command # svmon -G -O summary=ame,tmem=off To display global statistics with Active Memory Expansion details (in an Active Memory Expansion enabled system) in a one line format, enter the following command # svmon -G -O summary=longame Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 sysstat command Purpose Displays a summary of current system activity.   Syntax sysstat [  |  ]  [ User]   Description The sysstat command provides the following information:  time of day, amount of time since last system startup, number of users logged in and number of processes running.    Flags Flag name Description -long Prints the summary in long form. This is the default -short Prints the time of day, amount of time since last system startup, number of Users logged in and number of processes running.    Parameters Parameter Description User Specify an existing user name.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 topas command Purpose Reports selected local system statistics.   Syntax topas [ -disks number_of_monitored_hot_disks ] [ -interval monitoring_interval_in_seconds ] [ -nets number_of_monitored_hot_network_interfaces ] [ -procs  number_of_monitored_hot_processes ] [ -wlms number_of_monitored_hot_WLM_classes ] [ -cpus number_of_monitored_hot_CPUs ] [ -procsdisp  | -wlmdisp  | -cecdisp] [ -filesys  number_of_monitored_file_systems ] [ -tape] [ -fullscreen { process | WLM | lpar disk | net | CEC | vg | filesys | tape }]   Description The topas command reports selected statistics about the activity on the local system. The command displays its output in a format suitable for viewing on an 80x25 character-based display.  If the topas command is invoked without flags, it runs as if invoked with the following command line:   topas -disks 20 -interval 2 -nets 20 -procs 20 -wlms 20 -cpus 20 -filesys 2 When you specify a single flag, the topas command will take that value and the other values will be the default values. This is applicable to all the flags.  The program extracts statistics from the system with an interval specified by the monitoring_interval_in_seconds argument. The default output, as shown below, consists of two fixed parts and a variable section. The top two lines at the left of the display show the name of the system the topas command runs on, the date and time of the last observation, and the monitoring interval.  The second fixed part fills the rightmost 25 positions of the display. It contains five subsections of statistics, as follows:  Parameter Description EVENTS/QUEUES Displays the per-second frequency of selected system-global events and the average size of the thread run and wait queues:  Cswitch The number of context switches per second over the monitoring interval. Syscalls The total number of system calls per second executed over the monitoring interval. Reads The number of read system calls per second executed over the monitoring interval. Writes The number of write system calls per second executed over the monitoring interval. Forks The number of fork system calls per second executed over the monitoring interval. Execs The number of exec system calls per second executed over the monitoring interval. Runqueue The average number of threads that were ready to run but were waiting for a processor to become available. Waitqueue The average number of threads that were waiting for paging to complete. FILE/TTY Displays the per-second frequency of selected file and tty statistics.  Readch The number of bytes read per second through the read system call over the monitoring interval. Writech The number of bytes written per second through the write system call over the monitoring interval. Rawin The number of raw bytes read per second from TTYs over the monitoring interval. Ttyout The number of bytes written to TTYs per second over the monitoring interval. Igets The number of calls per second to the inode lookup routines over the monitoring interval. Namei The number of calls per second to the pathname lookup routines over the monitoring interval. Dirblk The number of directory blocks scanned per second by the directory search routine over the monitoring interval.  PAGING Displays the per-second frequency of paging statistics.  Faults Total number of page faults taken per second over the monitoring interval. This includes page faults that do not cause paging activity. Steals Physical memory 4K frames stolen per second by the virtual memory manager over the monitoring interval. PgspIn Number of 4K pages read from paging space per second over the monitoring interval. PgspOut Number of 4K pages written to paging space per second over the monitoring interval. PageIn Number of 4K pages read per second over the monitoring interval. This includes paging activity associated with reading from file systems. Subtract PgspIn from this value to get the number of 4K pages read from file systems per second over the monitoring interval. PageOut Number of 4K pages written per second over the monitoring interval. This includes paging activity associated with writing to file systems. Subtract PgspOut from this value to get the number of 4K pages written to file systems per second over the monitoring interval. Sios The number of I/O requests per second issued by the virtual memory manager over the monitoring interval. MEMORY Displays the real memory size and the distribution of memory in use.  Real,MB The size of real memory in megabytes. % Comp The percentage of real memory currently allocated to computational page frames. Computational page frames are generally those that are backed by paging space. % Noncomp The percentage of real memory currently allocated to non-computational frames. Non-computational page frames are generally those that are backed by file space, either data files, executable files, or shared library files. % Client The percentage of real memory currently allocated to cache remotely mounted files. PAGING SPACE Display size and utilization of paging space.  Size,MB The sum of all paging spaces on the system, in megabytes. % Used The percentage of total paging space currently in use. % Free The percentage of total paging space currently free. NFS Display NFS stats in calls per second  Server V2 calls/sec Client V2 calls/sec Server V3 calls/sec Client V3 calls/sec  The variable part of the topas display can have one, two, three, four, or five subsections. If more than one subsection displays, they are always shown in the following order:  CPU Network Interfaces Physical Disks WorkLoad Management Classes Processes  When the topas command is started, it displays all subsections for which hot entities are monitored. The exception to this is the WorkLoad Management (WLM) Classes subsection, which is displayed only when WLM is active.  Parameter Description CPU Utilization  This subsection displays a bar chart showing cumulative CPU usage. If more than one CPU exists, a list of CPUs can be displayed by pressing the c key twice. Pressing the c key only once will turn this subsection off. The following fields are displayed by both formats:   User% This shows the percent of CPU used by programs executing in user mode. (Default sorted by User%) Kern% This shows the percent of CPU used by programs executing in kernel mode. Wait% This shows the percent of time spent waiting for IO. Idle% This shows the percent of time the CPU(s) is idle.  When this subsection first displays the list of hot CPUs, the list is sorted by the User% field. However, the list can be sorted by the other fields by moving the cursor to the top of the desired column. Network Interfaces  This subsection displays a list of hot network interfaces. The maximum number of interfaces displayed is the number of hot interfaces being monitored, as specified with the -nets flag. A smaller number of interfaces will be displayed if other subsections are also being displayed. Pressing the n key turns off this subsection. Pressing the n key again shows a one-line report summary of the activity for all network interfaces. Both reports display the following fields:  Interf The name of the network interface. KBPS The total throughput in megabytes per second over the monitoring interval. This field is the sum of kilobytes received and kilobytes sent per second. I-Pack The number of data packets received per second over the monitoring interval. O-Pack The number of data packets sent per second over the monitoring interval. KB-In The number of kilobytes received per second over the monitoring interval. KB-Out The number of kilobytes sent per second over the monitoring interval.  When this subsection first displays the list of hot network interfaces, the list is sorted by the KBPS field. However, the list can be sorted by the other fields by moving the cursor to the top of the desired column. Sorting is only valid for up to 16 network adapters.  Physical Disks This subsection displays a list of hot physical disks. The maximum number of physical disks displayed is the number of hot physical disks being monitored as specified with the -disks flag. A smaller  number of physical disks will be displayed if other subsections are also being displayed. Pressing the d key turns off this subsection. Pressing the d key again shows a one-line report summary of the activity for all physical disks. Both reports display the following fields: Disk The name of the physical disk. Busy% Indicates the percentage of time the physical disk was active (bandwidth utilization for the drive). KBPS The number of kilobytes read and written per second over the monitoring interval. This field is the sum of KB-Read and KB-Read. TPS The number of transfers per second that were issued to the physical disk. A transfer is an I/O request to the physical disk. Multiple logical requests can be combined into a single I/O request to the disk. A transfer is of indeterminate size. KB-Read The number of kilobytes read per second from the physical disk. K -Writ The number of kilobytes written per second to the physical disk.  When this subsection first displays the list of hot physical disks, the list is sorted by the KBPS field. However, the list can be sorted by the other fields by moving the cursor to the top of the desired column. Sorting is only valid for up to 128 physical disks. WLM Classes  This subsection displays a list of hot WorkLoad Management (WLM) Classes. The maximum number of WLM classes displayed is the number of hot WLM classes being monitored as specified with the -wlmdisp flag. A smaller number of classes will be displayed if other subsections  are also being displayed. Pressing the w key turns off this subsection. The following fields are displayed for each class:   % CPU Utilization The average CPU utilization of the WLM class over the monitoring interval. % Mem Utilization The average memory utilization of the WLM class over the monitoring interval. % Blk I/O The average percent of Block I/O of the WLM class over the monitoring interval.  When this subsection first displays the list of hot WLM classes, the list will be sorted by the CPU% field. However, the list can be sorted by the other fields by moving the cursor to the top of the desired column.  Processes This subsection displays a list of hot processes. The maximum number of processes displayed is the number of hot processes being monitored as specified with the -procs flag. A smaller number of processes will be displayed if other subsections are also being displayed. Pressing the p key turns off this subsection. The process are sorted by their CPU usage over the monitoring interval. The following fields are displayed for each process:  Name The name of the executable program executing in the process. The name is stripped of any pathname and argument information and truncated to 9 characters in length. Process ID The process ID of the process. % CPU Utilization The average CPU utilization of the process over the monitoring interval. The first time a process is shown, this value is the average CPU utilization over the lifetime of the process. Paging Space Used The size of the paging space allocated to this process. This can be considered an expression of the footprint of the process but does not include the memory used to keep the executable program and any shared libraries it may depend on. Process Owner (if the WLM section is off) The user name of the user who owns the process. WorkLoad Management (WLM) Class (if the WLM section is on) The WLM class to which the process belongs.     Implementation Specifics Changes to WLM that are shown by topas (like adding new classes, or changing existing class names) will not be reflected after starting topas. You must stop topas and all clients which use Spmi, then restart after the WLM changes are made. This is also the case for Disks and Network Adapters added after topas or any other Spmi consumer is started.   Sample Default Output The following is an example of the display generated by the topas command:   Topas Monitor for host:    niller               EVENTS/QUEUES    FILE/TTY Mon Mar 13 15:56:32 2000   Interval:  2         Cswitch     113  Readch  1853576                                                 Syscall    2510  Writech   49883 CPU   User%   Kern%  Wait%  Idle%               Reads       466  Rawin         0 cpu0    7.0     4.0    0.0   89.0               Writes       12  Ttyout      706 cpu1    1.0     8.0    0.0   91.0               Forks         0  Igets         0 cpu2    0.0     0.0    0.0  100.0               Execs         0  Namei         0                                                 Runqueue    0.0  Dirblk        0                                                 Waitqueue   0.0 Interf   KBPS   I-Pack  O-Pack   KB-In  KB-Out lo0      100.4    45.7    45.7    50.2    50.2  PAGING           MEMORY tr0        2.0     4.4     3.4     1.4     0.6  Faults        1  Real,MB    1024                                                 Steals        0  % Comp     81.0 Disk    Busy%     KBPS     TPS KB-Read KB-Writ  PgspIn        0  % Noncomp  19.0 hdisk0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  PgspOut       0  % Client    3.0 hdisk1    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  PageIn        0                                                 PageOut       0  PAGING SPACE WLM-Class (Active)  CPU%    Mem%     Disk%      Sios          0  Size,MB       0 System               8      41        12                        % Used Shared               1      24         9                        % Free                                                 NFS      calls/sec Name     PID      CPU%   PgSP  Class            ServerV2    0   Press: topas    (35242)  3.0    0.3   System           ClientV2    0   "h" for help. X        (3622)   1.4   44.4   System           ServerV3    0   "q" to quit. notes    (25306)  1.3  123.3   System           ClientV3    0   Sample Full Screen Process Output  Topas Monitor for host:    mothra      Interval:   2    Wed Nov  8 12:27:34 2000                              DATA  TEXT  PAGE               PGFAULTS USER       PID  PPID PRI NI   RES   RES SPACE    TIME CPU%  I/O  OTH COMMAND root      1806     0  37 41    16  3374    16   13:25  1.0    0    0 gil root      1032     0  16 41     3  3374     3    0:00  0.0    0    0 lrud root      1290     0  60 41     4  3374     4    0:02  0.0    0    0 xmgc root      1548     0  36 41     4  3374     4    0:26  0.0    0    0 netm root         1     0  60 20   197     9   180    0:24  0.0    0    0 init root      2064     0  16 41     4  3374     4    0:04  0.0    0    0 wlmsched root      2698     1  60 20    14     2    14    0:00  0.0    0    0 shlap root      3144     1  60 20    40     1    36    5:19  0.0    0    0 syncd root      3362     0  60 20     4  3374     4    0:00  0.0    0    0 lvmbb root      3666     1  60 20   135    23   123    0:00  0.0    0    0 errdemon root      3982     0  60 20     4  3374     4    0:01  0.0    0    0 rtcmd root      4644     1  17 20     6  3374     6    0:00  0.0    0    0 dog root      4912     1  60 20   106    13    85    0:00  0.0    0    0 srcmstr root      5202  4912  60 20    94     8    84    0:01  0.0    0    0 syslogd root      5426  4912  60 20   195    76   181    0:12  0.0    0    0 sendmail root      5678  4912  60 20   161    11   147    0:01  0.0    0    0 portmap root      5934  4912  60 20   103    11    88    0:00  0.0    0    0 inetd root      6192  4912  60 20   217    61   188    0:21  0.0    0    0 snmpd root      6450  4912  60 20   137    10   116    0:00  0.0    0    0 dpid2 root      6708  4912  60 20   157    29   139    0:06  0.0    0    0 hostmibd root         0     0  16 41     3  3374     3    7:08  0.0    0    0 root      6990     1  60 20   106    10    86    0:06  0.0    0    0 cron   Sample Full-Screen WorkLoad Management Classes Output  Topas Monitor for host:    mothra      Interval:   2    Wed Nov  8 12:30:54 2000 WLM-Class (Active)              CPU%      Mem%     Disk-I/O% System                           0         0            0 Shared                           0         0            0 Default                          0         0            0 Unmanaged                        0         0            0 Unclassified                     0         0            0 ==============================================================================                              DATA  TEXT  PAGE               PGFAULTS USER       PID  PPID PRI NI   RES   RES SPACE    TIME CPU%  I/O  OTH COMMAND root         1     0 108 20   197     9   180    0:24  0.0    0    0 init root      1032     0  16 41     3  3374     3    0:00  0.0    0    0 lrud root      1290     0  60 41     4  3374     4    0:02  0.0    0    0 xmgc root      1548     0  36 41     4  3374     4    0:26  0.0    0    0 netm root      1806     0  37 41    16  3374    16   13:25  0.0    0    0 gil root      2064     0  16 41     4  3374     4    0:04  0.0    0    0 wlmsched root      2698     1 108 20    14     2    14    0:00  0.0    0    0 shlap root      3144     1 108 20    40     1    36    5:19  0.0    0    0 syncd root      3362     0 108 20     4  3374     4    0:00  0.0    0    0 lvmbb root      3666     1 108 20   135    23   123    0:00  0.0    0    0 errdemon root      3982     0 108 20     4  3374     4    0:01  0.0    0    0 rtcmd   Flags  Flag name Description -cecdisp Displays the cross-partition panel. -cpus  Specifies the number of hot CPUs to be monitored. This is also the maximum number of CPUs displayed when enough room is available on the screen. If this number exceeds the number of CPUs available, only the installed CPUs will be monitored and displayed. If this argument is omitted, a default of 2 is assumed. If a value of 0 (zero) is specified, no CPU information is monitored.When you specify a single flag, the topas command will take that value and the other values will be the default values. This is applicable to all the flags. -disks Specifies the number of disks to be monitored. This is also the maximum number of disks displayed when enough room is available on the screen. When this number exceeds the number of disks installed, only the installed disks are monitored and displayed. If this argument is omitted, a default of 2 is assumed. If a value of 0 (zero) is specified, no disk information is monitored. -interval  Sets the monitoring interval in seconds. The default is 2 seconds. -nets Specifies the number of hot network interfaces to be monitored. This is also the maximum number of network interfaces displayed when enough room is available on the screen. When this number exceeds the number of network interfaces installed, only the installed network interfaces will be monitored and displayed. If this argument is omitted, a default of 2 is assumed. If a value of 0 (zero) is specified, no network information is monitored. -procsdisp  Displays the full-screen process display. This display shows a list of the busiest processes, similar to the process subsection on the default display, only with more columns showing more metrics per process. This list can be sorted by any column. -procs Specifies the number of hot processes to be monitored. This is also the maximum number of processes shown when enough room is available on the screen. If this argument is omitted, a default of 20 is assumed. If a value of 0 is specified, no process information will be monitored. Retrieval of process information constitutes the majority of the topas overhead. If process information is not required, always use this option to specify that you do not want process information. -wlmdisp Displays the full-screen WLM class display, which is a split display. The top part of the display shows a list of hot WLM classes, similar to the WLM classes subsection on the default display, but with enough space available to display the full class names. This list can be sorted on any column. The bottom part of the display shows a list of busiest processes, similar to the full screen process display, but only displays processes belonging to one WLM class (selected with the f key). -wlms Specifies the number of hot WorkLoad Management (WLM) classes to be monitored. This is also the maximum number of WLM classes displayed when enough room is available on the screen. If this number exceeds the number of WLM classes installed, only the installed WLM classes will be monitored and displayed. If this argument is omitted, a default of 2 is assumed. If a value of 0 (zero) is specified, no WLM class information is monitored. -filesys Specifies the number of file systems to be monitored. This is also the maximum number of file systems displayed when enough room is available. When this number exceeds the number of file systems mounted, only the mounted file systems are monitored and displayed. If you do not specify the -filesys flag, the default value is 2. If you specify a value of 0, the file system information is monitored. -tape Switches the tape display section between on and off in the main topas display. -fullscreen Specifies the full-screen display of the specified parameter. The following parameters can be specified: process, WLM, lpar, disk, net, CEC, vg, filesys, or tape. This list can be sorted by any column.process Displays the full screen Process screen. This display shows a list of the busiest processes. This is similar to the process subsection on the default panel, only with more columns showing more metrics per process. WLM Displays the full screen WLM Classes panel. The top part of the screen shows a list of hot WLM classes. This is similar to the WLM classes subsection on the default screen, but with enough space available to display the full class names. lpar Displays the full screen Logical Partition panel. In shared-memory mode, this screen displays information about I/O memory entitlement of the partition. disk Displays the full screen Disk Metrics panel (Disk Panel View). The screen reports disk service times, disk queuing metrics, and disk throughput. net Displays the full screen statistics for the shared Ethernet adapter on a Virtual I/O Server.  CEC Displays the Cross-partition Panel.  	Dedicated and shared partitions are displayed, and a set of aggregated values provide an overview of the entire hardware systems partition set. Certain values that are only available from the HMC platform can be set through the HMC console. vg Displays the Volume Group Panel. The panel reports the following metrics of the volume groups in the top section of the screen, and the same metrics of the logical volumes in the bottom section of the screen. filesys Displays full file system information. The screen reports file system service times, file system queuing metrics, and file system throughput. tape Displays the full screen tape screen. This reports bandwidth use of the tape device, the amount of data transferred (read or written) to the tape device, and the average number of transfers per second issued to the tape device.   Subcommands While topas is running, it accepts one-character subcommands. Each time the monitoring interval elapses, the program checks for one of the following subcommands and responds to the action requested.    Command Description a The a key shows all of the variable subsections being monitored (CPU, network, disk, WLM, and process). Pressing the a key always returns the topas command to the initial main display. c The c key toggles the CPU subsection between the cumulative report, off, and a list of the busiest CPUs. The number of busiest CPUs displayed will depend upon the space available on the screen. d The d key toggles the disk subsection between a list of busiest disks, off, and the report on the total disk activity of the system. The number of busiest disks displayed will depend upon the space available on the screen. h Show the help screen. n The n key toggles the network interfaces subsection between a list of busiest interfaces, off, and the report on the total network activity of the system. The number of busiest interfaces displayed will depend upon the space available on the screen. w The w key toggles the WorkLoad Management (WLM) classes subsection on and off. The number of busiest WLM classes displayed will depend upon the space available on the screen. p The p key toggles the hot processes subsection on and off. The number of busiest processes displayed will depend upon the space available on the screen. P The uppercase P key replaces the default display with the full-screen process display. This display provides more detailed information about processes running on the system than the process section of the main display. When the P key is pressed again, it toggles back to the default main display. W The uppercase W key replaces the default display with the full-screen WLM class display. This display provides more detailed information about WLM classes and processes assigned to classes. When the W key is pressed again, it toggles back to the default main display. L The uppercase L key replaces the current display with the logical partition display. f Moving the cursor over a WLM class and pressing the f key displays the list of top processes in the class at the bottom of the WLM screen. This key is valid only when topas is in the full-screen WLM display (by using the W key or the -wlms flag). q Quit the program. r Refresh the display. Arrow and Tab keys Subsections from the main display such as the CPU, Network, Disk, WLM Classes, and the full-screen WLM and Process displays can be sorted by different criteria. Positioning the cursor over a column activates sorting on that column. The entries are always sorted from highest to lowest value. The cursor can be moved by using the Tab key or the arrow keys. Sorting is only valid for 128 disks and 16 network adapters.   Exit Status See .   Examples To display up to twenty "hot" disks every five seconds and omit network interface, WLM classes, and process information, type:   topas -interval 5 -nets 0 -procs 0 -wlms 0 To display the five most active processes and up to twenty most active WLM classes (which is the default when omitting the -w flag) but no network or disk information, type:   topas -procs 5 -nets 0 -disks 0 To run the program with default options, type:   topas To go directly to the process display, type:  topas -procsdisp To go directly to the WLM classes display, type:  topas -wlmdisp To display the top two file systems, type:  topas -filesys 2 To go directly to the WLM classes display, type:  topas -wlms 2 To go directly to the tape device display, type: topas -tape To go directly to the full screen WLM classes display, type:  topas -fullscreen WLM To go directly to the full screen CEC display, type: topas -fullscreen CEC To go directly to the full screen volume group display, type: topas -fullscreen vg   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 topasrec command Purpose Generates a binary recording of local system statistics, central electronics process (CEC) statistics, and cluster statistics.   Syntax topasrec { -local [ -trace trace_level] | -cec | -cluster} [ -count sample_count] [ -interval seconds] [ -out filename ]   Description The topasrec command records the local system data and the cross-partition data (CEC statistics) in binary format.  The command collects dedicated and shared logical partition data, as well as a set of aggregated values to provide an overview of the partition set on the same CEC.  When you run the command to record cluster statistics, the command collects a set of metrics for the list of hosts that are specified in the cluster configuration file.   Flags  Flag name Description -count Specifies the number of records to generate. -interval  Specifies the recording interval in seconds. The default is 2 seconds. -out Specifies the name of the output file. -cec  Records the CEC statistics in binary format. -local Records local system statistics in binary format. -cluster Records cluster statistics in binary format. -trace Specifies a trace level. Trace data is stored under /home/padmin/.topasrec. You can specify a value from 1 - 9. More trace data is generated at higher trace levels. This data is useful for recording status and for debugging purposes. Trace data is collected only for local system recording.   Exit StatusReturn Code Description 0 Success >0 An error occurred   Examples To start recording local system statistics with a sample count of 5 and a sample interval of 60 seconds, type:   topasrec -local -count 5 -interval 60 To start recording CEC statistics with a sample count of 5 and a sample interval of 60 seconds, type:   topasrec -cec -count 5 -interval 60 To start recording cluster statistics with a sample count of 5 and a sample interval of 60, type:   topasrec -cluster -count 5 -interval 60   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 unmount command Purpose Unmounts a previously mounted file system, directory, or file.   Syntax unmount   { Directory | File | FileSystem }   Description The unmount command unmounts a previously mounted directory, file, or file system. Processing on the file system, directory, or file completes and it is unmounted.  To unmount local mounts you can specify the device, directory, file, or file system on which it is mounted.   Exit Status See .   Examples To unmount files and directories, type the following command: unmount /home/user/test This unmounts the filesystem mounted at /home/user/test.   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 uname command Purpose Writes to standard output the name of the operating system that you are using   Syntax uname [  ] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] [] []   Description The machine ID number contains 12 characters in the following digit format: xxyyyyyymmss. The xx positions indicate the system and is always 00. The yyyyyy positions contain the unique ID number for the entire system. The mm position represents the model ID. The ss position is the submodel number and is always 00. The model ID describes the ID of the CPU Planar, not the model of the System as a whole.  You can use the uname -m command sometimes to determine which model you are using. The following list is not complete. Refer to hardware vendor supplied documentation for values in the range E0 - FF. Also note that not all machine types have a machine ID. Many new machines share a common machine ID of 4C.   Flags Flag name Description -a  Displays all information specified with the -m, -n, -r, -s, and -v flags. Cannot be used with the -x flag If the -x flag is specified with the -a flag, the -x flag overrides it. -F  Displays a system identification string comprised of hexadecimal characters. This identification string is the same for all partitions on a particular system. -f  Similar to the F flag, except that the partition number is also used in the calculation of this string. The resulting identification string is unique for each partition on a particular system. -l Displays the LAN network number. -L Displays LPAR number and LPAR name. If LPAR does not exist, -1 is displayed for LPAR number and NULL for LPAR name. -m Displays the machine ID number of the hardware running the system.   The -m flag cannot be used to generate a unique machine identifier for partitions in an LPAR environment. -M Displays the system model name. If the model name attribute does not exist, a null string is displayed. -n Displays the name of the node. This may be a name the system is known by to a UUCP communications network. -p  Displays the architecture of the system processor. -r Displays the release number of the operating system. -s Displays the system name. This flag is on by default. -u Displays the system ID number. If this attribute is not defined,  the output is the same as the output displayed by uname -m. -x Displays the information specified with the -a flag as well as the LAN network number, as specified by the -l flag.   Exit Status The following exit values are returned: Return code Description 0 Successful completion. >0 An error occurred.   Examples To display the complete system name and version banner, enter: uname -a AIX vios_bat 3 5 00CD1B0E4C00 To display the operating system name, enter: uname AIX  Virtual I/O Server uname command calls the AIX® uname command. The flags are the same except that -S, -T, and -v are not allowed.   Related Information uname subroutine   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 vmstat command Purpose Reports virtual memory statistics. Syntax   [ ] [  ] [  ] [ []] [  ] [  ] [ ] [  ] []  [{  |  }  | ALL] ALL] [] [] []   Do not use the  parameter and the  flag together inside . Description The  command reports statistics about kernel threads, virtual memory, disks, traps, and processor activity. Reports that are generated by the  command can be used to balance system load activity. These system-wide statistics (among all processors) are calculated as averages for values that are expressed as percentages, and as sums otherwise. The  command might return inconsistent statistics because the statistics are not read atomically.  If you run the  command without flags, the report contains a summary of the virtual memory activity since system startup. If you specify the -f flag, the  command reports the number of forks since system startup. The  parameter specifies the name of the physical volume.  The  parameter specifies the amount of time in seconds between each report. If you do not specify the  parameter, the  command generates a single report that contains statistics for the time since system startup and then exits. You can specify the  parameter only with the  parameter. If you specify the  parameter, its value determines the number of reports that are generated and the number of seconds apart. If you specify the  parameter without the  parameter, reports are continuously generated. Do not specify a value of zero to the  parameter.  The kernel maintains statistics for kernel threads, paging, and interrupt activity, which the  command accesses by using the  kernel extension. The disk input/output statistics are maintained by device drivers. For disks, the average transfer rate is determined by using the active time and number of times information is being transferred. The percent active time is computed from the amount of time the drive is busy during the report.  Beginning with , the  command reports the number of physical processors consumed (pc), and the percentage of entitlement consumed (ec), in  environments. These metrics display on the  environments.   The report that is generated by the  command contains a system configuration row and column headings. The system configuration row has the following values:  lcpu Indicates the number of logical processors. mem Indicates the amount of memory. tmem Indicates the true memory size of the LPAR.   This flag is available only when  option is provided and Active Memory™ Expansion is enabled. ent Displays only when the partition is running with shared processor. drives Displays only when physical volume name is monitored. s Indicates the number of active . It is displayed only when the  flag is specified. memlim Indicates the limit of the memory resource of the . The limit is in megabytes (MB). This information is displayed only for the  with enforced memory resource limit. cpulim Indicates the limit of processor resource of the  in processor units. This information is displayed only for the  with enforced processor resource limit. rset Indicates the type of the rset registry that is associated with a . The type can be regular or exclusive. This information is displayed only for the s that are associated with a rset registry. mmode Indicates memory mode. This metric is displayed automatically in a system with Active Memory Sharing enabled. This metric is also displayed when -c option is used. mpsz Size of the memory pool in gigabytes. This metric is displayed only in shared-memory mode.  The column headings and their descriptions follow:  : Information about . It displays only when the-@ flag is specified.    name.   The   name indicates system-wide statistics. The   name indicates the statistics belong to Global only. When the  command is started with the  option and the  specific information is not available for a metric, then an en dash sign (-) is displayed instead of a value. When the  command is started with the   or started inside a , if the  information is not available for a metric, then that metric is marked with the at sign (@), and the system-wide value is displayed for that metric. If a metric is not supported, then a en dash sign (-) is displayed instead of a value.    kthr: Information about kernel thread states.  r Average number of runnable kernel threads over the sampling interval. Runnable threads consist of the threads that are ready but still waiting to run, and the threads that are already running. b Average number of kernel threads that are placed in the Virtual Memory Manager (VMM) wait queue (awaiting resource, awaiting input/output) over the sampling interval.  Memory: Information about the usage of virtual and real memory. Virtual pages are considered active if they are accessed. A page is 4096 bytes. avm Active virtual pages. fre Size of the free list.   A large portion of real memory is used as a cache for file system data. It is not unusual for the size of the free list to remain small.  Page: Information about page faults and paging activity. This information is averaged over the interval and given in units per second.  re Pager input/output list. pi Pages that are paged in from paging space. po Pages paged out to paging space. fr Pages freed (page replacement). sr Pages that are scanned by page-replacement algorithm. cy Clock cycles by page-replacement algorithm.  Faults: Trap and interrupt rate averages per second over the sampling interval.  in Device interrupts. sy System calls. cs Kernel thread context switches.  CPU: Breakdown of percentage usage of processor time.  us User time. If the current physical processor consumption of the uncapped partitions exceeds the entitled capacity, the percentage becomes relative to the number of physical processor consumed (pc). sy System time. If the current physical processor consumption of the uncapped partitions exceeds the entitled capacity, the percentage becomes relative to the number of physical processor consumed (pc). id Processor idle time. If the current physical processor consumption of the uncapped partitions exceeds the entitled capacity, the percentage becomes relative to the number of physical processor consumed (pc). wa Processor idle time during which the system had outstanding disk/NFS I/O request. If the current physical processor consumption of the uncapped partitions exceeds the entitled capacity, the percentage becomes relative to the number of physical processor consumed (pc). pc Number of physical processors used. Displayed only if the partition is running with shared processor. ec The percentage of entitled capacity that is consumed. Displayed only if the partition is running with shared processor. Because the time base over which this data is computed can vary, the entitled capacity percentage can sometimes exceed 100%. This excess is noticeable only with small sampling intervals. rc The percentage of processor resource that is used. This information is displayed only for the s with enforced processor resource limit.  Disk: Provides the number of transfers per second to the specified physical volumes that occurred in the sample interval. The parameter can be used to specify one to four names. Transfer statistics are given for each specified drive in the order specified. This count represents requests to the physical device. It does not imply an amount of data that was read or written. Several logical requests can be combined into one physical request. If the  parameter is used, the physical volume names are printed at the beginning of command execution.   If the -I flag is specified, an I/O oriented view is presented with the following column changes.  kthr The p column is displayed in addition to the r and b columns.  p Number of threads waiting for I/O messages to raw devices. Raw devices are those devices that are directly attached to the system. If the -W flag is specified along with the -I flag, an additional w column is also displayed along with the r, b, and p flags. w Number of threads that are waiting for the file system direct I/O and concurrent I/O (CIO). page New fi and fo columns are displayed instead of the re and cy columns.  fi File page-ins per second. fo File page-outs per second.  If the -c flag is specified, Active Memory Expansion view is presented with the following column changes.  memory The columns csz, cfr, and dxm are displayed besides columns avm and fre. csz Current compressed pool size, in 4K page units. cfr Free pages available in compressed pool, in 4K page units. dxm Deficit in Expanded Memory Size, in 4K page units. page New columns ci and co are displayed instead of re and cy columns. ci Number of page-ins per second from compressed pool. co Number of page-outs per second to compressed pool.  If while the  command is running, there is a change in system configuration that affects the output,  prints a warning message about the configuration change. It then continues the output after printing the updated system configuration information and the header.   If the -l flag is specified, an additional "large-page" section is displayed with the following columns: alp Indicates the number of large pages currently in use. flp Indicates the number of large pages on the large page freelist.    If the -p option is specified, additional lines of VMM statistics are displayed for the specified page sizes. With -I and -t options, the -p option produces an additional line for the specified page size. This line contains the following VMM statistics relevant to the specified page size: avm fre re fi fo pi po ci co fr sr cy   The display of the re, fi, fo, and cy options are affected by the -I option. The display of the re, ci, co, and cy options are affected by the -c option. If there is no resource control, then the avm and fre options are system-wide. Therefore, with the -@ option set, both the avm and fre options will be marked with the at sign (@).   These VMM statistics are preceded by a psz column and followed by an siz column. The description of these two columns follows: psz Page size (for example, 4 KB, 64 KB). siz Number of frames of the specified page size that exist on the system. With the -s option, the -p option produces a separate stanza of output that contains only the statistics relevant to the specified page size. This additional stanza is preceded by a page size header.  The -P option produces the following report for the specified page size: pgsz Indicates the page size (for example, 4 KB, 64 KB). Memory Indicates the memory statistics for the specified page sizes. siz The number of frames of the specified page size that exist on the system. avm Active virtual pages applicable to the specified page size. fre Size of the free list for the specified page size. Page Indicates the relevant page faults and paging activity for the specified page size. The page-related columns re, pi, po, fr, sr, cy, fi, fo, ci, and co are also applicable to this report. Flags  If the  (or ) flag is entered on the command line, then the system accepts the  (or ) flag and ignores other flags. If both the  and  flags are specified, the system accepts only the first flag and ignore the second flag.  Flag name Description -@  Reports the Virtual Memory activity of a :  The -@ ALL option indicates that the report pertains to the system and global environment, in addition to all of the  in the system.   The values that are system-wide statistics are marked with dash sign (-) against the  section. The -@ flag indicates that the activity is only for that . The system-wide statistics are marked with the at sign (@).  Do not use the -@ flag with any combination of the -i flag. -c Displays memory compression statistics with the new columns of output, csz, cfr, and dxm under the heading memory, and columns ci and co under the heading page instead of the columns re and cy.  This option is available only when Active Memory Expansion is enabled. -f Reports the number of forks since system startup. -i Displays the number of interrupts that are taken by each device since system startup.  The -I, -t, -w, and -l flags are ignored when they are specified with the -i flag. -I Displays I/O oriented view with the new columns of output, p under heading kthr,and columns fi and fo under heading page instead of the columns re and cy in the page heading. -l Displays an extra "large-page" section with the alp and flp columns. -p pagesize Appends the VMM statistics for the specified page size to the regular  output. -P pagesize Displays only the VMM statistics, which are relevant for the specified page size. -s Writes to standard output the contents of the sum structure, which contains an absolute count of paging events since system initialization. The -s flag can only be used with the -v flag. These events are described as follows:  address translation faults Incremented for each occurrence of an address translation page fault. I/O may or may not be required to resolve the page fault. Storage protection page faults (lock misses) are not included in this count. -s backtracks  Incremented for each page fault that occurs while resolving a previous page fault. (The new page fault must be resolved first and then initial page faults can be backtracked.) CPU context switches Incremented for each processor context switch (dispatch of a new process). decrementer interrupts Incremented on each decrementer interrupt. device interrupts Incremented on each hardware interrupt. executable-filled page faults Incremented for each instruction page fault. extend XPT waits  Incremented each time that a process is waited by VMM due to a commit in progress for the segments accessed. free frame waits Incremented each time that a process requests a page frame. The free list is empty, and the process is forced to wait while the free list is replenished. iodones Incremented at the completion of each VMM I/O request. mpc send interrupts Incremented on each mpc send interrupt. mpc receive interrupts Incremented on each mpc receive interrupt. page ins Incremented for each page read in by the virtual memory manager. The count is incremented for page ins from page space and file space. Along with the page-out statistic, this value represents the total amount of real I/O initiated by the virtual memory manager. page outs Incremented for each page that is written out by the virtual memory manager. The count is incremented for page outs to page space and for page outs to file space. Along with the page in statistic, this statistic represents the total amount of real I/O initiated by the virtual memory manager. paging space page ins Incremented for VMM initiated page ins from paging space only. paging space page outs Incremented for VMM initiated page outs to paging space only. pages examined by the clock VMM uses a clock-algorithm to implement a pseudo least recently used (lru) page replacement scheme. Pages are aged by being examined by the clock. This count is incremented for each page examined by the clock. pages freed by the clock Incremented for each page the clock algorithm selects to free from real memory. pending I/O waits Incremented each time that a process is waited by VMM for a page-in I/O to complete. -s phantom interrupts Incremented on each phantom interrupt revolutions of the clock hand Incremented for each VMM clock revolution (that is after each complete scan of memory). start I/Os Incremented for each read or write I/O request that is initiated by VMM. syscalls  Incremented for each system call. total reclaims Incremented when an address translation fault can be satisfied without initiating a new I/O request. This can occur if the page has been previously requested by VMM, but the I/O has not yet completed; or if the page was pre-fetched by VMM's read-ahead algorithm, but was hidden from the faulting segment; or if the page has been put on the free list and has not yet been reused. traps  Not maintained by the operating system. zero-filled page faults Incremented if the page fault is to working storage and can be satisfied by assigning a frame and zero-filling it.  compressed pool page ins  Number of page-ins from Compressed Pool since system boot. compressed pool page outs   Number of page-outs to Compressed Pool since system boot. -s When used with the -p pagesize option, the -s option appends the sum structure for the specified page size to the system-wide sum structure. This additional stanza is preceded by a page size header (for example, 4K pages). The following details are not be displayed in this pagesize-based stanza as these statistics are not related to page sizes:  Processor context switches Device interrupts Software interrupts Decrementer interrupts MPC-sent interrupts MPC-received interrupts Phantom interrupts Traps Syscalls   When the -s flag is used with the -@ ALL option, the system-wide statistics are repeated in the  section. When the -s flag is used with the  option, all metrics are reported and the system-wide statistics are marked with the at sign (@). When the -s flag is used with the -l flag, the  command displays the following metric:  large-page hi water count Specifies the maximum value of the large-page inuse count.   -S  Multiplies the statistics of the processor with a value of 10power. The default value of the power is 0. The following statistics are scaled:  us sy id wa pc ec   Do not use the -S flag with the -f, -s, -i, -v, or -p flags. When the -S flag is specified, the us, sy, id, and wa statistics change. By default, the us, sy, id, and wa statistics are relative to the processor consumption of . When the -S flag is specified with a value of power that is not equal to zero, these statistics will be relative to system-wide processor consumption. The value of power for -S flag can be only between 0 and 3.   -t Prints the time-stamp next to each line of output of . The time-stamp is displayed in the HH:MM:SS format.   Time stamp is not be printed if -f, -s, or -i flags are specified. -v Writes to standard output various statistics maintained by the Virtual Memory Manager. The -v flag can only be used with the -s flag.  If you specify the -v flag, the following statistics are displayed:  compressed percentage Percentage of memory used by compressed pages.  client filesystem I/Os blocked with no fsbuf Number of client filesystem I/O requests blocked because no fsbuf was available. NFS (Network File System) and VxFS (Veritas) are client filesystems. Fsbuf are pinned memory buffers used to hold I/O requests in the filesystem layer.  client pages Number of client pages.  compressed pages Number of compressed memory pages.  external pager filesystem I/Os blocked with no fsbuf  Number of external pager client filesystem I/O requests blocked because no fsbuf was available. JFS2 is an external pager client filesystem. Fsbuf are pinned memory buffers used to hold I/O requests in the filesystem layer. file pages Number of 4 KB pages that are currently used by the file cache. free pages Number of free 4 KB pages.  filesystem I/Os blocked with no fsbuf  Number of filesystem I/O requests blocked because no fsbuf was available. Fsbuf are pinned memory buffers used to hold I/O requests in the filesystem layer. lruable pages Number of 4 KB pages that are considered for replacement. This number excludes the pages that are used for VMM internal pages, and the pages that are used for the pinned part of the kernel text.  maxclient percentage Tuning parameter (managed using vmo) specifying the maximum percentage of memory, which can be used for client pages. maxperm percentage Tuning parameter (managed using vmo) in percentage of real memory. This specifies the point above which the page stealing algorithm steals only file pages. maxpin percentage Tuning parameter (managed using vmo) specifying the percentage of real memory which can be pinned.  memory pages Size of real memory in number of 4 KB pages.  memory pools  Tuning parameter (managed using vmo) specifying the number of memory pools.  minperm percentage Tuning parameter (managed using vmo) in percentage of real memory. This specifies the point below which file pages are protected from the re-page algorithm.  numclient percentage Percentage of memory that is occupied by client pages. numperm percentage Percentage of memory that is currently used by the file cache. -v  (Statistics that are displayed by -v, continued): paging space I/Os blocked with no psbuf  Number of paging space I/O requests that are blocked because the psbuf space is not available. The psbufs space is pinned memory buffers that are used to hold I/O requests at the virtual memory manager layer. pending disk I/Os blocked with no pbuf Number of pending disk I/O requests blocked because no pbuf was available. Pbufs are pinned memory buffers used to hold I/O requests at the logical volume manager layer pinned pages Number of pinned 4 KB pages. remote pageouts scheduled  Number of pageouts scheduled for client file systems.  If you specify the -h flag with the -v flag, the following additional metrics are displayed: Time resolving virtualized partition memory page faults The total time that the virtual partition is blocked to wait for the resolution of its memory page fault. The time is measured in seconds, with millisecond granularity. Virtualized partition memory page faults The total number of virtual partition memory page faults that are recorded for the virtualized partition. Number of 4 KB page frames loaned The number of the 4 KB pages of partition's memory loaned to the hypervisor. Percentage of partition memory loaned The percentage of the partition's memory loaned to the hypervisor.   When the -v flag is used with the -@ ALL option, the system-wide statistics are not repeated in the  section. When the -s flag is used with the  option, all metrics are reported and the system-wide statistics are marked with the at sign (@).    Compressed Pool Size Size of Compressed Pool, in 4K page unit.  percentage of true memory that is used for compressed pool Percentage of unexpanded memory that is used for compressed pool. free pages in compressed pool (4K pages) Number of free pages in compressed pool, in 4K page unit. target memory expansion factor Target memory expansion factor that is configured for the LPAR. achieved memory expansion factor Current memory expansion factor achieved. -h Displays the hypv-page section that includes the hypervisor page information. The hypv-page section contains the following metrics: hpi Number of hypervisor page-in per second. hpit Average time that is spent in milliseconds per hypervisor page-in. pmem Amount of physical memory that is backing the logical memory of partitions. The value is measured in gigabytes.  If you specify the -h flag with the -v flag, the following metrics are displayed in addition to the metrics that are displayed using the -v flag:  Time resolving virtualized partition memory page faults The total time that the virtual partition is blocked to wait for the resolution of its memory page fault. The time is measured in seconds, with millisecond granularity. Virtualized partition memory page faults The total number of virtual partition memory page faults that are recorded for the virtualized partition. Number of 4 KB page frames loaned The number of the 4 KB pages of the memory that is loaned to the hypervisor in the partition. Percentage of partition memory loaned The percentage of the memory loaned to the hypervisor in the partition. -w Displays the report in wide mode. -W Displays an extra field w in the kthr section. This option is allowed only with -I flag.   If Active Memory Expansion is enabled, the  reports memory statistics in the expanded view. However, if the environment variable AME_MEMVIEW is set to TRUE, the memory statistics  represent the true view. The AME_MEMVIEW environment variable has no impact on memory statistics reported using the -c option.   SecurityAny user can run the vmstat command. If the user is not a root user, the view will be limited to the user's own processes.  If  is activated and the vios.system.stat.memory role is attributed to the user, then that user can see the same view that the root user does. Examples To display a summary of the statistics since boot, enter the following command:   vmstat To display five summaries at 2-second intervals, enter the following command:  vmstat 2 5 To display a summary of the statistics since boot including statistics for logical disks scdisk13 and scdisk14, enter the following command:   vmstat scdisk13 scdisk14 To display fork statistics, enter the following command:   vmstat -f To display the count of various events, enter the following command:   vmstat -s To display time-stamp next to each column of output of , enter the following command:   vmstat -t To display the I/O oriented view with an alternative set of columns, enter the following command:   vmstat -I To display all the VMM statistics available, enter the following command:  vmstat -vs To display the large-page section with the alp and flp columns at 8-second intervals, enter the following command: vmstat -l 8 To display the VMM statistics specific to a particular page size (in the example, 4 KB), enter the following command: vmstat -p 4K To display the VMM statistics for all page sizes that are supported on the system, enter the following command: vmstat -p ALL Or enter the following command:  vmstat -p all To display only the VMM statistics for a particular page size (in this example, 4 KB), enter the following command: vmstat -P 4K To display only the per-page breakdown of VMM statistics for all supported page sizes, enter the following command: vmstat -P ALL Or enter the following command: vmstat -P all To display a summary of the statistics for all of the  after boot, enter the following command: vmstat -@ ALL To display all of the VMM statistics available for all of the , enter the following command: vmstat –vs -@ ALL To display both  and system-wide VMM statistics from a , enter the following command:  vmstat -@ To multiply the processor values with 10 and display the results, enter the following command:  vmstat -S 1 To display the statistics for the hypervisor page, enter the following command: vmstat –h To display the information about pages that are loaned to the hypervisor, enter the following command: vmstat -vh To display memory compression statistics (in an LPAR with Active Memory Expansion enabled), enter the following command: vmstat -c To display memory compression statistics specific to per-pagesize (in an LPAR with Active Memory Expansion enabled), enter the following command: vmstat –c –P ALL To append memory compression information to the statistics displayed by -soption (in an LPAR with Active Memory Expansion enabled), enter the following command:  vmstat –s -c To append memory compression information to the statistics displayed by -voption (in an LPAR with Active Memory Expansion enabled), enter the following command:  vmstat –v -c Files   Item Description /usr/bin/vmstat Contains the  command. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 installios command Purpose Installs the . This command is run from the .   Syntax  [ -p partition_name -i ipaddr or hostname -S subnet_mask -g gateway -d path -s system_name -m mac_address -r profile  [-n] [-P speed] [-D duplex] [-l language ] ] | -u    Description The  command installs the . It must be run from the . All of the flags are optional. If no flags are provided, the  wizard will be invoked and the user will be prompted to interactively enter the information contained in the flags.    Flags Flag name Description -s	  		 Specifies the managed system. The name of the managed system maintained by the .  This name must match the name shown on the , not a host name. -p Specifies the partition name. The name of the LPAR that will be installed with .  This partition must be of type  and the name given for it must match the name shown on the , not a host name.   -r Specifies the profile name. The name of the profile that contains the hardware resources being installed to.  	 -d Specifies the path to installation images. Either /dev/cdrom or the path to a system backup of the  created by the  command.  The path may also specify a remote location mountable by NFS such as hostname:/path_to_backup  	 -i Specifies the client IP address. The IP address with which the client's network interface will be configured for network installation of the  operating system.  	 -S Specifies the client subnet mask. The subnet mask with which the client's network interface will be configured for network installation of the  operating system.  		 -g Specifies the client gateway. The default gateway that the client will use during network installation of the  operating system.  	 -m Specifies the client MAC address. The MAC address of the client network interface through which the network installation of the  will take place.  		 -P Specifies speed (optional) The communication speed with which to configure the client's network interface.  This value can be 10, 100, or 1000, and is 100 by default if this flag is not specified.   -D Specifies duplex (optional). The duplex setting with which to configure the client's network interface.  This value can be full or half and is set to full by default if this flag is not specified.  	  -n Specifies not to configure the client's network interface (optional): If this flag is specified, then the client's network interface will not be configured with the IP settings specified in the flags given to this command after the installation has completed.  -l Specifies language (optional): The language in which the license agreement will be displayed before the installation.  Upon viewing the license, a prompt will be shown asking if the license is to be accepted.  If the prompt is answered with y, then the installation will proceed and the  license will be automatically accepted after the installation.  If the prompt is answered with n, then the  command will exit and the installation will not proceed.  If this flag is not specified, then the installation will proceed, but the  will not be usable until the license is manually accepted after the installation.   -t Specifies to migrate the Virtual I/O Server. This option creates network installation management (NIM) resources to be used for the migration and requires a Virtual I/O Server migration DVD.  -u Unconfigure  (optional). Will manually unconfigure the  installation resources.  This flag is only needed if a problem occurs during the installation and  does not automatically unconfigure itself.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 ioslevel command Purpose Reports the latest installed maintenance level of the system.   Syntax ioslevel   Description The ioslevel command displays the  level.   Exit Status See    Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 license command Purpose View and accept the license agreement.   Syntax license  { [  ] [  ] } [  Name ]    [  ]   Description The license command is used to view and accept the  license agreement. If no flags are specified, the current status of the license agreement is displayed. If the license has been accepted, the date and time of acceptance is displayed.   Flags Flag name Description -accept Accepts the license agreement. -lang Name Specifies the language-territory (locale name) that the license will be displayed in. The default is en_US. -ls Lists available languages. -view Displays the  license agreement.   Exit Status See .   Examples To view the license in the en_US locale, type: license -view To accept the license in the fr_FR locale, type: license -accept -lang fr_FR To view if the license has been accepted, type: license   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lssw command Purpose Lists installed software products.   Syntax lssw [ -hist ]   Description The lssw command displays information about installed filesets or fileset updates. If the -hist parameter is not specified, the name, most recent level, state, and description of all filesets is displayed. Part information (usr, root, and share) is consolidated into the same listing. For formatted filesets, it displays the most recent maintenance level. Any interim fixes on the system are also displayed.  If the -hist flag is specified, installation and update history information is displayed.    Output Values 	The following sections define terms used in several of the output fields. 	Note that not all output values are defined here. Only the ones that require 	explanation are defined.  	  State Values The state field in the lssw output gives the state of the fileset on your system. It can have the following values:  State Description APPLIED The specified fileset is installed on the system. The APPLIED state means that the fileset can be removed with the updateios command and the previous level of the fileset restored.  APPLYING An attempt was made to apply the specified fileset, but it did not complete successfully, and cleanup was not performed. BROKEN The specified fileset or fileset update is broken and should be reinstalled before being used. COMMITTED The specified fileset is installed on the system. The COMMITTED state means that a commitment has been made to this level of the software. A committed fileset update cannot be rejected, but a committed fileset base level and its updates (regardless of state) can be removed by the updateios command. EFIX LOCKED The specified fileset was installed successfully and locked. OBSOLETE The specified fileset was installed with an earlier version of the operating system but has been replaced by a repackaged (renamed) newer version. Some of the files that belonged to this fileset have been replaced by versions from the repackaged fileset. COMMITTING An attempt was made to commit the specified fileset, but it did not complete successfully, and cleanup was not performed. REJECTING An attempt was made to reject the specified fileset, but it did not complete successfully, and cleanup was not performed.    Action Values The action field in the lssw output identifies the installation action that was taken for the fileset. The following values may be found in this field:  Action Description APPLY An attempt was made to apply the specified fileset. CLEANUP  An attempt was made to perform cleanup for the specified fileset. COMMIT An attempt was made to commit the specified fileset. REJECT An attempt was made to reject the specified fileset.    Status Values The status field in the lssw output identifies the resultant status in the history of installation actions. The following values may be found in this field:  Status Description BROKEN The fileset was left in a broken state after the specified action. CANCELED  The specified action was canceled before it completed. COMPLETE The commitment of the fileset has completed successfully.   Flags Flag name Description -hist Displays the installation and update history information.     Exit Status See     Examples To list all installed software, type: lssw To list installation and update history, type: lssw -hist   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 oem_platform_level command Purpose Returns the operating system level of the OEM installation and setup environment.   Syntax oem_platform_level   Description The oem_platform_level command displays the name and version of the underlying  operating system.  This command can only be executed by the prime administrator.   Exit Status See    Examples To get the operating system level of the OEM installation and setup environment, run the following command: oem_platform_level   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 oem_setup_env command Purpose Initiates the OEM installation and set up environment.   Syntax oem_setup_env   Description The oem_setup_env command places the user into the OEM software installation and set up environment. In this environment, the user can install and set up OEM software by following the installation instructions provided with each software package. After the software is installed, the user will need to create a link in the /usr/ios/oem/ directory to any new commands that will run from the  command line. After these links have been created, the commands will be accessible by all  users. Note however that these commands will not run with root authority.   After the software has been installed,, typing exit will return the user to the  prompt.  Only the prime administrator can execute this command.   The  command will place the padmin user in a non-restricted UNIX root shell with a home directory in the /home/padmin directory. The user can then run any command available to the root user. This is not a supported  administration method. The purpose of this command is to allow installation of vendor software, such as device drivers.   Exit Status See    Examples To initiate the OEM set up and installation environment, type the following: oem_setup_env   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 remote_management command Purpose Enables the  to be remotely managed by an  NIM (Network Installation Management) master.   Syntax To enable the  to be remotely managed by an  NIM master:  remote_management  [  Interface ] Master  To disable remote management:  remote_management    Description The remote_management command will setup the  to allow remote management from a NIM master. The Master parameter specifies the NIM master hostname.  The Interface  parameter specifies the network interface to be used to connect to the NIM master.  If Interface is not specified, the default network interface used will be en0.  The remote_management command utilizes the NIM service handler for client communication (nimsh), so the NIM master must be nimsh capable.  Once remote management has been enabled on the , typical NIM functions, such as update, backup, and reinstall, can be initiated from the NIM master.     Flags Flag name Description -disable Disables the  NIM client daemon. -interface Specifies which network interface to use. If no network interface is specified, interface en0 will be used.   Exit Status See    Examples To enable remote_management using NIM master nimsys01, type: remote_management nimsys01 To disable remote_management, type: remote_management -disable   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IBM Systems Director agent commands Commands related to configuring, starting, and stopping the IBM® Systems Director agent for the . Parent topic:          
 IBM Tivoli Monitoring agent commands Commands related to configuring, starting, and stopping the IBM® Tivoli® Monitoring agent for the . Parent topic:          
 IBM Tivoli Storage agent commands Commands related to configuring, starting, and stopping the IBM® Tivoli® Storage agent for the . Parent topic:          
 dsmc command Purpose Backs up and restores data that is generated while using the  server.   Syntax dsmc [  |  ]  dsmc [  |  ]    Description The dsmc command allows the user to back up and restore data from the  Server.   Flag Flag name Description -incremental  Backs up all new or changed files or directories in the default client domain or from file systems, directories, or files you specify, unless you exclude them from backup services. -query [argument] Query functions to query backups on the  Server  access Displays a list of current authorization rules.  archive  Displays a list of archived files  backup Displays a list of back up versions.  backupset Queries a backup set from a local file, tape device, or the   Server.  filespace Displays a list of file spaces in  storage. You can also specify a single file space name to query.  group Displays information about group backups and their members.  image Displays information about image backups.  inclexcl Displays a list of include-exclude statements in the order in which they are processed during backup and archive operations.  mgmtclass Displays information about available management classes.  node  Displays all the nodes for which an administrative user ID has authority to perform operations.  options Displays all or part of your options and their current settings.  restore Displays a list of your restartable restore sessions in the server database.  schedule Displays information about scheduled events for your node.  session Displays information about your session,  including the current node name, when the session was shed, server information, and server connection information.  systeminfo Gathers  system information and outputs this information to a file or the console.  was  Displays backups of the WebSphere® Application Server (WAS) Network Deployment Manager (contains setup, application files, and configuration information) or the Application Server that match the node name and type of the WAS group backup that you specify. -restore [argument] Restores copies of backup versions of your files from an  server. backupset Restores a backup set from the  server or a local file. You can also restore a backup from a tape device.  group Restores specific members or all members of a group backup.  image Restores a file system or raw volume image backup.  nas Restores the image of a file system belonging to a Network Attached Storage (NAS) file server.  was Restores the WebSphere Application Server (WAS)  Network Deployment Manager (contains setup, application files, and configuration information) or the Application Server from the  server. -schedule Starts the client scheduler on the workstation.     can help protect computers running a variety of different operating environments, including the Virtual I/O Server, on a variety of different hardware. Configuring the  client on the Virtual I/O Server enables you to include the Virtual I/O Server in your standard backup framework.   Attributes Description Value DSMC_CONFIG  Specifies the location of the configuration file. /home/padmin/tivoli/tsm/dsm.sys DSMC_DIR Specifies the location of the  configuration directory. /home/padmin/tivoli/tsm/   Exit Status The following exit values are returned: Value name Description 0 Successful completion. >0 An error occurred.   Examples To backup an image to the  server, type: dsmc -incremental <mksysb_file_to_backup>  To view backup images on the  server, type: dsmc -query backup <mksysb_file_to_backup>   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IBM Tivoli Usage and Accounting Manager agent commands Commands related to configuring, starting, and stopping the IBM® Tivoli® Usage and Accounting Manager agent for the . Parent topic:          
 IBM TotalStorage Productivity Center agent commands Commands related to configuring, starting, and stopping the IBM® TotalStorage Productivity Center agent for the . Parent topic:          
  commands Commands related to configuring and managing the . Parent topic:          
 IVM bkprofdata command Purpose Backs up profile data.  This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax bkprofdata  backup [  BackupFile ] [  ManagedSystem ]   Description The bkprofdata command performs a back up of logical partition configuration information to a file.  The file can later be used to restore the partition configuration with the  command.   Flags Flag name Description -f BackupFile The name of the file to write the dump to in the current working directory.  If not specified, the default file is /var/adm/lpm/profile.bak. -o backup The backup parameter backs up logical partition configuration data to a file.       -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system. This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is available to all users.   Examples To back up the partition configuration data to /var/adm/lpm/profile.bak, type: bkprofdata -o backup   To back up the partition configuration data to lparData.bak, type: bkprofdata -o backup -f lparData.bak     Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM chhwres command Purpose Changes hardware resources.  This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To add, remove, or modify physical or virtual I/O, memory, or processors settings  chhwres -r io | mem | proc | virtualio [ --rsubtype   scsi | slot | eth  | fc] [-m <managed system>] -o a | r | s | rs [-p <partition name> | --id <partition ID>] [-l <DRC index>] [-s <virtual slot number>] [-q<quantity>] [--procs <quantity>] [--procunits <quantity>] [-w <wait time>] [-d <detail level>] [--force] [-a "<attributes>"] [--help]  To add, remove, or modify  resource assignments and settings  chhwres -r hea [--rsubtype   slot | eth ] [-m <managed system>] -o a | r | s [-p <partition name> | --id <partition ID>] [-l <HEA DRC index>] [-g<port group ID>] [--physport <physical port ID>] [--logport <logical port ID>] [-w <wait time>] [-d <detail level>] [--force] [-a"<attributes>"] [--help]   Description The chhwres command changes the hardware resource configuration of the managed system. The chhwres command is used to perform dynamic LPAR operations.   Flags Flag name Description --device Specifies the paging space device to add or remove. The --device flag is valid only with -r mempool --rsubtype pgdev. -r Specifies the type of hardware resources to change. Valid values are io for physical I/O, hea for  resources, virtualio for virtual I/O, mem for memory, and proc for processing resources.  --rsubtype  Specifies the subtype of hardware resources to change. Valid values for --rsubtype depend on the resource type you specify. io: slot, taggedio virtualio: eth, scsi, fc, hsl, virtualopti mempool: pgdev      -m managed system  Specifies the name of the managed system for which the hardware resource configuration is to be changed.   The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss, where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.  -o  Specifies the operation to perform. Valid values are a to add hardware resources to a logical partition, r to remove hardware resources from a logical partition, and s to set hardware resource related attributes for a logical partition an , or the managed-system.  -p  Specifies the name of the logical partition for which the operation is to be performed.    You can either use this option to specify the name of the logical partition for which the operation is to be performed, or use the --id option to specify the logical partition's ID. The -p and the --id options are mutually exclusive.    The logical partition name or --id is required for virtual Ethernet. --id partition ID  Specifies the ID of the logical partition for which the operation is to be performed. To perform an add or remove operation, the logical partition must be in the running state.    You can either use this option to specify the ID of the logical partition for which the operation is to be performed, or use the -p option to specify the logical partition's name. The --id and the -p options are mutually exclusive.  A logical partition is required to be specified with this option or the -p option for all operations except a virtual Ethernet, memory,  set operation.  -l  When adding, removing, or moving a physical I/O slot, use this option to specify the DRC index of the slot.   When performing an  operation, use this option to specify the adapter ID of the  for which the operation is to be performed.   This option is not valid for any other operation.   -s  Specifies the virtual slot number of the virtual I/O adapter to add or remove. When adding or removing a virtual I/O adapter, this option is required.  -q Specifies the quantity of memory to add or remove. The quantity specified must be in megabytes, it must be a multiple of the memory region size for the managed-system, and it must be greater than 0. --procs quantity  When adding or removing processing resources to or from a logical partition using dedicated processors, use this option to specify the quantity of dedicated processors to add or remove.    When adding or removing processing resources to or from a logical partition using shared processors, use this option to specify the quantity of virtual processors to add or remove.    The quantity of processing resources specified with this option must be a whole number greater than 0.  --procunits  When adding or removing processing resources to or from a logical partition using shared processors, use this option to specify the quantity of processing units to add or remove.   Otherwise, the quantity of processing units specified with this option can have up to 2 decimal places. In either case, the quantity specified must be greater than 0. --physport  Specifies the ID of the  physical port. This option is required when adding an  logical port to a logical partition. This option is also required when setting  physical port attributes. This option is not valid for any other operation. --logport  Specifies the ID of the  logical port to add or remove.  This option is required for a  add or remove operation. This option is not valid for any other operation. -g Specifies the  port group. This option is required for all  operations, and is not valid for any other operation. -w  Specifies the elapsed time, in minutes, after which an add, remove, or move operation will be stopped. wait-time must be a whole number. If wait-time is 0, the operation will not be timed out.   If this option is not specified, a default value of 5 minutes is used.    -d  Specifies the level of detail to be displayed upon return of an add or remove operation. Valid values are 0 (none) through 5 (highest).    If this option is not specified, a default value of 0 is used.    This option is valid for all add or remove operations for , , and  logical partitions.   --entitled Dynamically changes the amount of I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the logical partition.  Use the -o parameter to specify which operation to perform. --force Forces an add or remove operation to be performed for an  and  logical partition that does not have an RMC connection to the . If this command completes successfully, you will need to restart your operating system for the change to take effect. Use this option only if you intentionally configured your LAN to isolate the  from the operating system of your logical partition.  -a attributes Specifies the configuration data needed to create virtual I/O adapters or set hardware resource related attributes. The configuration data consists of attribute name/value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format. The configuration data must be enclosed in double quotation marks. Possible values are: adapter_type Whether the adapter is a client or server.  Valid values are client and server.  IVM requires the value to be client. This attribute is optional. addl_vlan_ids alt_console_slot The location of the physical I/O slot that contains the alternate console device for the  logical partition. The default value is none.  alt_restart_device_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the alternate restart device for the  logical partition. If the load source slot has a value other than none, then this attribute is optional. Valid values are:  Slot number (virtual I/O) none   conn_speed The configured connection speed of the port in Mbps. Possible values are: auto 10 100 1000 10000 console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the console device for the  logical partition. Valid values are:  Slot number (virtual I/O) none flow_control Receive flow control value of the port 1 (enabled) 0 (disabled)   hsl_pool_id Whether the logical partition participates in the high-speed link (HSL) pool. The default value is 0 (does not participate). ieee_virtual_eth Valid values: 0 - not IEEE 802.1Q compatible 1 - IEEE 802.1Q compatible is_trunk  Valid values: 0 - no 1 - yes   lhea_capabilities Comma-separated list of logical  capabilities, with each capability having one of the following formats: adapter-ID/capability  or adapter-ID/5/ieq/nieq/qp/cq/mr where ieq (interruptible event queues), nieq (non-interruptible event queues), qp (queue pairs), cq (completion queues), and mr (memory regions) each specify the resource amount in addition to the base minimum. Valid values are: 0 - minimum 1 - low 2 - medium 3 - high 4 - dedicated 5 - custom load_source_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the load source for the  logical partition. If the alt_restart_device_slot has a value other than none, then this attribute is optional. Valid values are:  Slot number (virtual I/O) none   max_pool_mem Maximum amount of physical memory that can be assigned to the memory pool without taking the pool offline.  The value should be designated in megabytes and must be a multiple of the logical memory block (LMB) size. This attribute is required. The attribute supports the =/+=/-= format. max_recv_packet_size Maximum transmission unit (MTU) size of the port. Possible values: 1500 (default) 9000 (jumbo) mem_weight The shared memory weight of the shared memory partition. This flag is used for determining the priority of logical partitions in a memory pool for distribution of memory. This attribute is only supported when the value of the -o parameter is s. This attribute supports the = format.     op_console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the directly-attached operations console device for the  logical partition. The default value is none. paging_storage_pool The name of the default paging storage pool.  This is the storage pool from which new paging space devices are created.  This attribute is optional, but can only be defined during the creation stage. paging_vios_ids A comma-separated list of logical partition IDs of paging service partitions to associate with this memory pool.  This attribute is optional, but if specified, must be equal to 1.   paging_vios_names A comma-separated list of logical partition names of paging service partitions to associate with this memory pool.  This attribute is optional, but if specified, must be equal to the name of the Virtual I/O Server logical partition. pend_port_group_mcs_value A  port group attribute value.  In order to synchronize the pending value with the current value, you need to reboot the system. pool_mem The amount of physical memory to assign, to add, or remove from the memory pool in megabytes.  This required value must be a multiple of the logical memory block size.   The attribute supports the =/+=/-= format.   port_vlan_id This option is required if you are adding a virtual Ethernet adapter. promisc_lpar_id The ID assigned to the promiscuous logical partition. Possible values:  none 1 - 254 promisc_lpar_name Name assigned to the promiscuous logical partition.  sharing_mode The sharing mode of the logical partition. Valid values are: keep_idle_procs: Never share processors share_idle_procs:  Share processors only when logical  partition is inactive share_idle_procs_always: Always share processors share_idle_procs_active: Share processors only when  the logical partition is active cap: Capped mode. uncap: Uncapped mode.    remote_lpar_id The ID of the logical partition that has the virtual SCSI or virtual fibre channel server adapter.   A value of any indicates that any client adapter should be allowed to connect to this adapter.   Integrated Virtualization Manager (IVM) requires the value to be 1. This attribute is optional.    The remote_lpar_id attribute and the remote_lpar_name attribute are mutually exclusive. remote_lpar_name Specifies a user-defined name for the logical partition where the virtual fibre channel or virtual SCSI server adapter will be created.   IVM will require the value of this to be the name of the Virtual I/O Server logical partition. This attribute is optional.    The remote_lpar_id attribute and the remote_lpar_name attribute are mutually exclusive.   remote_slot_num Specifies the slot number where the virtual fibre channel or virtual SCSI server adapter will be created on the remote logical partition.   If the value is not specified, IVM will use the next available slot. This attribute is optional. trunk_priority Valid values are integers between 1 and 15, inclusive.  Required for a trunk adapter.  uncap_weight The weighted average of processing priority when in uncapped sharing mode. The smaller the value, the lower the weight. Possible values are 0 - 255.    virtual_opti_pool_id The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the directly-attached operations console device for the  logical partition. The default value is 0 (does not participate). vlan_id_list List of virtual LAN IDs that the logical port has access to. wwpns Designates the worldwide port names to this adapter, which are entered as a comma-separated list.  If the worldwide port names are not specified, IVM will request that a pair be allocated. Each worldwide port name must be a 16-character hexadecimal value, and two worldwide port names must be specified. --help Displays the help text for this command and exit.    Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Examples To change the tagged I/O for an  logical partition, type the following command: chhwres -r io -rsubtype taggedio -o s --id <LPAR ID> | -p <LPAR NAME>  -a ATTR=VALUE Configure a  port for a logical partition: Add a  port to the logical partition with ID 2, with port 3 in port group 1:  chhwres -r hea -o a -l 23000000 -g 1 -a vlan_id_list=all  --id 2 --logport 3 --physport 0    Set the connection speed of physical port 0 to auto:  chhwres -r hea -o s -l 23000000 -g 1 -a conn_speed=auto --physport 0 Add a virtual Ethernet adapter to the management partition in slot 25 with VLAN tags on VLAN 212 and VLAN 313 to be used with a shared Ethernet adapter:chhwres -r virtualio --rsubtype eth -o a --id 1 -s 25  -a port_vlan_id=2,ieee_virtual_eth=1, \"addl_vlan_ids=212,313\",is_trunk=1,trunk_priority=1 Add a virtual Ethernet adapter to partition 4 in virtual slot 5 with VLAN tags on VLAN 212 and VLAN 313: chhwres -r virtualio --rsubtype eth -o a --id 4 -s 5  -a port_vlan_id=2,ieee_virtual_eth=1, \"addl_vlan_ids=212,313\" Create a memory pool with 4 GB of physical memory in the pool and 8 GB of maximum memory in the pool. Use the rootvg volume group to create paging space devices: chhwres -r mempool -o a  -a pool_mem=4096,max_pool_mem=8192,paging_storage_pool=rootvg   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM chled command Purpose Change states for physical and virtual LEDs.  This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To change virtual partition LEDs:   chled  sa  virtuallpar  Operation {  PartitionName |  PartitionID } [  ManagedSystem ]   To change virtual system LEDs:   chled  sa  virtualsys  Operation [  ManagedSystem ]   Description The chled command changes the states of physical and virtual LEDs.   Flags Flag name Description -r  ResourceType 	 The type of LED resource to change.  The only valid value is sa for System Attention (SA) LED.  -t SystemAttentionType  	 The type of System Attention (SA) LEDs to change.   -r sa -t virtuallpar Change attributes for virtual partition system attention LEDs Attributes:  lpar_id, lpar_name, state Filters: None   -r sa -t virtualsys Change attributes for virtual system attention LEDs Attributes:  state Filters: None                          	 		 -o The operation to perform on the LED.  Valid values are: off deactivate the LED on activate the LED -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.  -p PartitionName The name of the partition for which the virtual partition system attention LED is to be changed. 	 --id PartitionID The ID of the partition for with the virtual partition system attention LED is to be changed.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples To deactivate the virtual system attention LED for the system, type: chled -r sa -t virtualsys -o off To activate the virtual partition system attention LED for partition lpar3, type: chled -r sa -t virtuallpar -o on -p lpar3    To dectivate the virtual partition system attention LED for the partition with ID 3, type: chled -r sa -t virtuallpar -o off --id 3   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM chlparutil command Purpose Change settings for data collection.  This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax chlparutil  config  SampleRate [  ManagedSystem ]   Description The chlparutil command changes the settings for data collection such as the sample rate at which data is collected.   Flags Flag name Description -r ResourceType 	 The type of resources to change: config Change configuration settings.        -s SampleRate The interval in seconds to sample utilization data.  An interval of zero disables sampling.  Valid sample rates are 0, 30. -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples Disable the collection of utilization data: chlparutil -r config -s 0     Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM chsvcevent command Purpose Changes an existing serviceable event.  This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To close an existing serviceable event:   chsvcevent -o close -p ProblemNumber -n Name -c CommentText [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The chsvcevent command closes an existing serviceable event.   Flags Flag name Description -o Operation 	 The operation to be performed. The only valid value is close.  -p ProblemNumber 	 The problem number (problem_number) for the event, as displayed by the lssvcevents command. 		 -n A free form name string identifying the person who is closing the event.  -c A free form text comment about why the event is being changed. 	  -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples To close a serviceable event, type: chsvcevent -o close -p 6013EFFF-205F3F22-4CC992E5-F8B6270-7540D8A3  -m 9111-520*XXXXXXX -n My Name -c Closing Comment     Related Information The  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM chsyscfg command Purpose Changes attributes of logical partitions, logical partition profiles, or the managed system. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To change system attributes:  chsyscfg -r sys { -f ConfigurationFile | -i ConfigurationData } [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To change partition attributes  chsyscfg -r lpar { -f ConfigurationFile | -i ConfigurationData } [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To change partition profile attributes, the  logical port assignments, or the logical  capabilities  chsyscfg -r prof { -f ConfigurationFile | -i ConfigurationData } [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The chsyscfg command changes attributes of logical partitions, logical partition profiles, or the managed system.   Flags Flag name Description -r  ResourceType The type of resources to change: sys Managed system resources  lpar Logical  partition resources prof  Logical partition profile resources                -m ManagedSystem	 The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. -f ConfigurationFile The name of the file containing  the  configuration  data  needed  to  change  the resources. The configuration data consists of attribute name and value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format. These attribute name and value pairs form a configuration record. A line feed marks the end of a configuration record.  The file must contain one configuration record for each resource to  be  changed,  and each  configuration  record  must  be for the same resource type. If the resource type is the managed system, then the file must  contain  only one configuration record. The format of a configuration record is as follows:  attribute-name=value,attribute-name=value,...<LF>  Note that certain attributes accept a comma separated list of values, as follows:  "attribute-name=value,value,...",...<LF>  When a list of values is specified, the attribute name/value pair must be enclosed in double quotation marks.  Depending on the shell being used, nested double quotation marks  may need to be preceded by an escape character, which is usually a \ (back slash) character.   If '+=' is used in the attribute name/value pair instead of '=', then  the  specified  value  is  added to the existing value for the attribute if the attribute is numerical.  If the attribute is a list, then the specified values are added to the existing list.   If  '-='  is used in the attribute name/value pair instead of '=', then the specified value is subtracted  from  the  existing  value  for  the  attribute  if  the attribute  is  numerical.  If the attribute is a list, then the specified values are deleted from the existing list.  Attribute names for logical partitions   allow_perf_collection  Valid values are: 0 - do not allow authority 1 - allow authority ipl_source The IPL source for the  logical partition. This attribute is optional. Valid values are:  a b c d name | lpar_id Name or ID of the logical partition to change (required) new_name New name for the logical partition. work_group_id  Valid values are: none - do not participate in the workload management    group 1 - participate in the workload management group      Attribute names for logical partition profiles alt_restart_device_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the alternate restart device for the  logical partition. If the load source slot is has a value other than none, then this attribute is optional. Valid values are:  Slot Number (virtual I/O) none auto_start  Valid values are: 0 - do not automatically start with system power on  1 - automatically start with system power on   boot_mode  Logical partition power on mode. Valid values are: norm - normal  dd - diagnostic with default boot list  ds - diagnostic with stored boot list  of - Open Firmware OK prompt  sms - System Management Services console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the console device for the  logical partition. Valid values are:  Slot Number (for virtual I/O) none   desired_io_entitled_mem The amount of I/O entitled memory for a shared memory partition.  This is the portion of memory that is reserved for I/O mappings. Valid values follow: auto (automatically manage) Number of megabytes If the value is auto, the entitlement is calculated based on the virtual I/O configuration of the logical partition. If the virtual I/O configuration is changed, the entitlement is updated automatically.  If auto is not used, no automatic adjustments are made.  The default value is auto. desired_mem Assigned memory in megabytes desired_procs Assigned processors. In shared processing mode, this refers to virtual processors. desired_proc_units Assigned shared processing units.     lhea_capabilities Comma-separated list of logical  capabilities, with each capability having one of the following formats: adapter-ID/capability  or adapter-ID/5/ieq/nieq/qp/cq/mr where ieq (interruptible event queues), nieq (non-interruptible event queues), qp (queue pairs), cq (completion queues), and mr (memory regions) each specify the resource amount in addition to the base minimum. Valid values are: 0 - minimum 1 - low 2 - medium 3 - high 4 - dedicated 5 - custom lhea_logical_ports Comma separated list of Logical  (LHEA) logical ports, with each logical port having the following format:  adapter-ID/port-group/physical-port-ID/  logical-port-ID/allowed-VLAN-IDs   All 4 '/' characters must be present, but optional values may be omitted. Optional values are allowed-VLAN-IDs.   load_source_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the load source for the  logical partition. If the alt_restart_device_slot has a value other than none, then this attribute is optional. Valid values are:  Slot number (virtual I/O) none lpar_avail_priority The priority of the logical partition to maintain its entitled processors. If a processor failure occurs, processing resources will be removed first from the lowest priority logical partition. Valid values are 0 - 255.  The  logical partition must have a higher priority than any other logical partition on the system.   lpar_proc_compat_mode The requested compatibility mode. Use lssyscfg -r sys -F lpar_proc_compat_modes to retrieve a list of valid values. max_mem Maximum memory in megabytes. min_mem Minimum memory in megabytes.   min_procs Minimum processors. In shared processing mode, this refers to virtual processors. max_procs Maximum processors. In shared processing mode, this refers to virtual processors. max_proc_units Maximum shared processing units.   min_proc_units Minimum shared processing units.   max_virtual_slots Maximum number of virtual I/O adapter slots   mem_mode Logical partition memory mode. Valid values follow: ded: dedicated processor mode shared: shared processor mode If the memory mode is shared, the logical partition cannot be assigned any physical I/O slots or host Ethernet adapter resources, the proc_mode attribute on the logical partition must be shared, and a memory pool must exist.   The Virtual I/O Server logical partition only supports the dedicated memory mode. mem_weight The shared memory weight of the shared memory partition.  The memory weight is used to determine the priority of logical partitions in a memory pool for distributing memory. Valid values are 0 - 255.  The default value is 128.  name | lpar_name | lpar_id Name or ID of the logical partition to change (required)   This command uses the profile name and lpar_name interchangeably because this environment does not support multiple profiles per logical partition.  When using this command on the , you must specify the profile name and logical partition name or ID because it supports multiple profiles per logical partition.    new_name New name for the logical partition. paging_device The paging space device to use if a memory pool is used.  A paging space device is a block storage device that has been added to the memory pool and is not designated as a paging device for any other logical partition.  This attribute is optional. If omitted, an appropriate paging device is selected automatically.  If the paging_device value is a blank string and a paging space device is currently assigned to this partition, the paging space device is removed from the logical partition. proc_mode Valid values follow:  ded: dedicated processor mode shared: shared processor mode sharing_mode The sharing mode of the logical partition. Valid values follow: keep_idle_procs: Never share processors share_idle_procs: Share processors only when the logical partition is inactive share_idle_procs_always: Always share processors share_idle_procs_active: Share processors only when the logical partition is active cap: Capped mode uncap: Uncapped mode   uncap_weight A weighted average of processing priority when in uncapped sharing mode.  The smaller the value, the lower the weight. Valid values are: 0 - 255 virtual_eth_adapters Comma-separated list of virtual Ethernet adapters, with each adapter having the following format: slot_number/is_ieee/port_vlan_id/additional_vlan_ids/is_trunk/is_required All 5 '/' characters must be present, but optional values may be omitted.  Optional values are is_ieee, additional_vlan_ids, is_required and is_trunk. Valid values for is_ieee, is_trunk, and is_required" 0 - no  1 - yes  For example, 4/0/2//0/0 specifies a virtual Ethernet adapter with a virtual slot number of 4, is not IEEE 802.1Q enabled, has a port virtual LAN ID of 2, no additional virtual LAN IDs, it is not a trunk adapter, and is not required.    virtual_fc_adapters Comma-separated list of virtual fibre channel adapters.  Each item in this list has the following format:  virtual slot num/adapter_type/remote_lpar_id/ remote_lpar_name/remote_slot_num/wwpn_list/is_required Required values: remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name, adapter_type, virtual_slot_num     You can specify either remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name, or use them both, but at least one of the values is required.  Valid values for adapter_type: client server   If you specify a value for adapter type, the Integrated Virtualization Manager (IVM) requires the adapter type to be a client.  Optional values: wwpn_list, is_required, remote_slot_num   When you add a virtual fibre channel adapter, wwpn_list can be left blank to allow IVM to automatically assign worldwide port names to the client adapter.  If you leave wwpn_list blank and the virtual slot number specified for this adapter already contains a virtual fibre channel adapter, IVM will use the worldwide port names that are already assigned.  New worldwide port names will only be generated if it is a new adapter. If you specify a wwpn_list value, there must be exactly two values.  Each worldwide port name must be a 16-character hexadecimal value.  These values are not case sensitive.   Valid values for is_required:  0 - no  1 - yes A value of none or an empty string indicates that no virtual fibre channel adapters should be assigned.   If the logical partition being changed is the Virtual I/O Server, you cannot change the current configuration. The IVM handles the client and server adapter as a pair; thus, IVM handles modifications automatically.    virtual_scsi_adapters Comma-separated list of virtual SCSI adapters. Each item in this list has the format:  slot_num/adapter_type/remote_lpar_id/remote_lpar_name/ remote_slot_num/is_required  The attribute names are not present in the list, just their values are present. If an attribute is optional and is not to be included, then no value is specified for that attribute. For example, 2/client//lpar2/3/0 specifies a virtual client SCSI adapter with a virtual slot number of 2, a server partition name of lpar2, a server slot number of 3, and is not required. The server partition ID was omitted.  Required values: slot_num, adapter_type, remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name    You can specify remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name, or both, but at least one of the values is required.  Optional values: is_required, remote_slot_num    IVM requires that virtual slot number 2 always contain a virtual SCSI adapter, so if you specify adapters in any other slots, the default adapter is still created in slot number 2.  If you use the chsyscfg command with an empty list for the virtual_scsi_adapters attribute, all virtual SCSI adapters are removed, except the default adapter.  Valid values for adapter_type:  client: client adapter server: server adapter, valid for Virtual I/O Server logical partitions only  Valid values for is_required: 0 - no 1 - yes   Attribute names for the managed system lpar_comm_default Returns the lpar_comm_ipaddr to using the default IP address configured on the system as reported by lstcpip -interfaces. Valid values: 1: Default IP address will be used. lpar_comm_ipaddr The IP address through which client logical partitions will communicate with the management logical partition. This is used primarily for dynamic LPAR. It is defaulted to the first IP address available on your system, but can be manually set if desired. If you set this manually and then change your systems IP address, you must update this value.   This attribute supports multiple IP addresses using a comma-separated list. new_name New name for the managed system pend_configured_max_lpars The maximum number of logical partitions which can be created after restarting the managed system.This option is deprecated. Instead use: chsyscfg -r prof with attribute "max_virtual_slots" value for partition 1. -i ConfigurationData This option allows you to enter configuration data on the command line, instead of using a file. Data entered on the command line must follow the same format as data in a file, and must be enclosed in double quotation marks.   When this option is used, only a single resource can be changed.    The -i and the -f options are mutually exclusive.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples To change the user defined name for the managed system, type:        chsyscfg -r sys -i "new_name=sys1"      To change logical partitions using the configuration data in the file /tmp/lparfile, type:        chsyscfg -r lpar -f /tmp/lparfile      To reduce a partition profile's assigned and minimum memory by 256 MB, type:        chsyscfg -r prof -i "lpar_name=partition3,min_mem-=256,desired_mem-=256"    Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM chsysstate command Purpose Changes the state of a partition. This command is operable only in the  environment.   Syntax To activate a partition:   chsysstate -r lpar -o on { -n Name | --id PartitionID } [ -k KeylockPosition ] [ -b BootMode ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To perform a partition shut down using the shutdown command on the client operating system:  chsysstate -r lpar -o osshutdown { -n Name | --id PartitionID } [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To perform a delayed partition shut down (white button shut down):   chsysstate -r lpar -o shutdown { -n Name | --id PartitionID } [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To perform an immediate partition shutdown (operator panel function 8):   chsysstate -r lpar -o shutdown --immed { -n Name | --id PartitionID } [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To perform an immediate restart of a partition (operator panel function 3):   chsysstate -r lpar -o shutdown --immed --restart { -n Name | --id PartitionID } [ -m ManagedSystem ]   To perform a restart of a partition after initiating a dump (operator panel function 22):   chsysstate -r lpar -o dumprestart { -n Name | --id PartitionID } [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To change the keylock position for a partition:   chsysstate -r lpar -o chkey -k KeylockPosition { -n Name | --id PartitionID } [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The chsysstate command changes the state of a partition.  To avoid data loss, use the shutdown facilities provided by the operating system in the partition.   Flags Flag name Description -r ResourceType 	 The type of resources to change:  lpar Logical  partition resources  -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. -o Operation The type of operation to perform: chkey: Changes the keylock position consoleservice: Disables a remote service session for the  partition (operator panel function 65) followed by the activation of the dedicated service tools for the  partition (operator panel function 21).  dston: Activates dedicated service tools for the  partition (operator panel function 21).  dumprestart: Restarts after initiating a dump iopdump: Allows use of the IOP control storage dump (operator panel function 70). This operation is valid for  partitions only.  iopreset: Resets or reloads the failed IOP (operator panel function 67). This operation is valid for  partitions only. on: Power on  osshutdown: Shuts down using the client partition's shutdown command. This is the safest shutdown option, so should be used if available (RMC state must be active). remotedston: Enables a remote service session for the  partition (operator panel function 66).  retrydump: Retries the dump on the  partition and restarts the partition when the dump is complete (operator panel function 34). shutdown: Shuts down remotedstoff: Disables a remote service session for the  partition (operator panel function 65).        -i IPL Source  The IPL source that will be used when activating the  partition. You can also use the  command to complete this task. If this flag is not specified, then the current IPL source will be used. Valid values are:   a b c d -b BootMode Override the current power on mode setting. Valid values are: norm: normal  dd: diagnostic with default boot list  ds: diagnostic with stored boot list  of: Open Firmware OK prompt  sms: System Management Services -k KeylockPosition Keylock position. Valid values are: norm: normal keylock  manual: manual keylock --immed Force the state change immediately. --restart Restart the partition. This flag is valid only if the --immed flag is also specified.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples To power on the partition with an ID of 2 and set the boot mode to System Management Services, type the following command:        chsysstate -r lpar -o on --id 2 -b sms    To shut down the partition with an ID of 3, type the following command:        chsysstate -r lpar -o shutdown --id 3   To immediately restart the partition with an ID of 3 using the client operating system's shutdown command, type the following command: chsysstate -r lpar -o osshutdown --restart --immed --id 3 To select the IPL source before activating an  logical partition, type the following command: chsysstate -r lpar -o [-i <IPL Source>]   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM chvet command Purpose Activates Virtualization Engine systems technologies. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax chvet  <e>  <activation code> [ <managed system>] []   Description The chvet command performs activation of Virtualization Engine systems technologies on the managed-system.    Flags Flag name Description -o  The operation to perform. The only valid value is e to enter an activation code. -m managed system The name of the managed system for which the Virtualization Engine systems technologies activation is to be performed. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss, where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.  -k  The activation code (key) to enter. Letters may be entered in either upper case or lower case. --help  Display the help text for this command and exit.    Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Examples To enter an activation code, type the following command: chvet -m mySystem -o e -k AlphaNumericString12345    Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lpar_netboot command Purpose Retrieves the media access control (MAC) address and physical location code from network adapters for a logical partition, or instructs a logical partition to do a network boot. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To retrieve a MAC address:  lpar_netboot   [] [] [] [] []  [  Speed Duplex  Server   Client ]     To perform a network boot:  lpar_netboot [ [] [] [] [ args] [  | []  phys_loc | []  maddress]  [  Speed Duplex  Server   Client       Description The lpar_netboot command instructs a logical partition to do a network boot by having the logical partition send out a bootp request to a server that is specified with the -S flag. The server can be a network installation management (NIM) server serving SPOT resources or any server serving network boot images.  If the -M and -n flags are specified, the lpar_netboot command returns the MAC address and the physical location code for a particular type of network adapter that is specified with the -t flag. When the -m flag is specified, lpar_netboot boots a partition using a specific network adapter that matches the specified MAC address. When the -l flag is specified, lpar_netboot boots a logical partition by using a specific physical location code for the network adapter that matches the specified physical location code. The matching MAC address or physical location code is dependent on the hardware resource allocation in the profile in which the logical partition was booted. The lpar_netboot command also requires arguments for the partition name and the partition profile (which contains the allocated hardware resources), and the name of the managed system in which the logical partition was defined.   Flags Flag name Description -A  Returns all adapters of the given type. -C Client Specifies the IP address of the machine to do a network boot. -D Performs a ping test so the adapter can successfully ping the server that is specified with the -S flag. -d Duplex Specifies the duplex setting of the machine that is specified with the -C flag. -f  Forces a close virtual terminal session for the logical partition. -G Gateway Specifies the gateway IP address of the machine that is specified with the -C flag. -g args Specifies generic arguments for booting. -i Forces an immediate shutdown of the partition.  subnetmask Specifies the mask that the gateway should use in determining the appropriate subnetwork for routing. The subnet mask is a set of 4 bytes, as in the Internet address. The subnet mask consists of  high bits (1's) corresponding to the bit positions of the network and subnetwork address, and low bits (0's) corresponding to the bit positions of the host address. -l phys_loc Specifies the physical location code of the network adapter to do a network boot. -M Displays the network adapter MAC address and physical location code. -m maddress Specifies the MAC address of the network adapter to do a network boot. -n Instructs the logical partition to not do a network boot. -S Server Specifies the IP address of the machine to retrieve the network boot image during the network boot. -s Speed Specifies the speed setting of the machine that is specified with the -C flag. -t ent Specifies the type of adapter for MAC address or physical location code discovery, or for a network boot. -v Displays additional information while the command is running. -x Displays debug output while the command is running.   Parameters Parameter name Description partition_name Specifies the name of the partition. partition_profile Specifies the name of the partition profile to use. managed_system Specifies the name of the managed system on which the partition is defined.   Exit Status The following exit values are returned: Value Description 0 The command completed successfully. >0 An error occurred.   Security Access Control: You must have root authority to run the lpar_netboot command.   Examples  To retrieve MAC address and physical location code for partition machA with logical partition profile machA_prof on managed system test_sys, type:  lpar_netboot -M -n -t ent "machA" "machA_prof" "test_sys" To do a network boot of logical partition machA with a partition profile machA_prof on managed system test_sys, type:  lpar_netboot -t ent -s auto -d auto -S 9.3.6.49 -G 9.3.6.1 -C 9.3.6.234                    "machA" "machA_prof" "test_sys" To do a network boot of logical partition machA with the specific MAC address 00:09:6b:dd:02:e8 and logical partition profile machA_prof on managed system test_sys, type:  OS_install -o allocate -a os_resource=my53resource myclient01  To do a network boot of logical partition machA with the specific physical location code U1234.121.A123456-P1-T6 and logical partition profile machA_prof on managed system test_sys, type:  lpar_netboot -t ent -l U1234.121.A123456-P1-T6 -s auto -d auto -S 9.3.6.49                    -G 9.3.6.1 -C 9.3.6.234 "machA" "machA_prof" "test_sys"  To perform a ping test and do a network boot of logical partition machA with logical partition profile machA_prof on managed system test_sys, type:  lpar_netboot -t ent -D -s auto -d auto -S 9.3.6.49 -G 9.3.6.1 -C 9.3.6.234                     "machA" "machA_prof" "test_sys"   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lpcfgop command Purpose Perform a partition configuration image operation. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To clear logical partition configuration data at next system restart:   lpcfgop -o clear [--force ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To disable logical partition configuration data at next system restart:   lpcfgop -o disable [--force ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To dump logical partition configuration data to a file:   lpcfgop -o dump [-f DumpFile] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To enable logical partition configuration data at next system restart:   lpcfgop -o enable [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The lpcfgop command performs a partition configuration image operation such as clearing, disabling, enabling, or dumping the logical partition configuration data.   Flags Flag name Description -o  Operation The type of operations: clear: Marks the logical partition configuration data to be cleared when the managed system is restarted. disable: Marks the logical partition configuration data to be disabled when the managed system is restarted. This will temporarily place the system back into the factory configuration partition mode. dump: Dumps all logical partition configuration data from managed system firmware to a file. This data may be used by service.  Use the bkprofdata command to create backups that can be restored. enable: Enables partition configuration data so that it will not be disabled or cleared when the managed system is restarted. -f DumpFile The name of the file to write the dump to in the current working directory.  If not specified, the default file will be /var/adm/lpm/lparConfig.dump --force Skip confirmation prompts for clear and disable operations. -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   SecurityThis command is accessible only to the padmin user in an  IVM environment.   Examples Clear the partition configuration data (confirmation will be required) during the next reboot:  lpcfgop -o clear   Dump the logical partition configuration data to lparData.dump:  lpcfgop -o dump -f lparData.dump   Related Information The  command and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lshwres command Purpose Lists the hardware resources of a managed system. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To list attributes for physical I/O buses   lshwres -r io  --rsubtype bus [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list attributes for I/O pools   lshwres -r io  --rsubtype iopool --level pool [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list system attributes for I/O pools   lshwres -r io  --rsubtype iopool --level sys [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list attributes for physical I/O buses   lshwres -r io  --rsubtype bus [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list attributes for physical I/O slots   lshwres -r io  --rsubtype slot [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list attributes for physical I/O units   lshwres -r io  --rsubtype unit [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list recoverable I/O resources  lshwres -r io --rsubtype slot -R [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list the currently tagged I/O for all  logical partitions  lshwres  -r io --rsubtype taggedio [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list partition attributes for memory   lshwres -r mem --level lpar [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To display memory statistics from a partition  lshwres -r mem --level lpar --stat --filter "FilterData" [-F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list system attributes for memory   lshwres -r mem  --level sys [ --maxmem ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list recoverable memory resources  lshwres -r mem --level lpar -R [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   To list information about the memory pool  lshwres -r mempool [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   To list paging devices associated with the memory pool  lshwres -r mempool --rsubtype pgdev [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   To list recoverable memory pools  lshwres -r mempool -R [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   To list partition attributes for processors   lshwres -r proc  --level lpar [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list shared processor pool attributes   lshwres -r proc  --level pool [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list system attributes for processors   lshwres -r proc --level sys [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list recoverable processors resources  lshwres -r proc --level lpar -R [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   To list virtual Ethernet adapter attributes   lshwres -r virtualio  --rsubtype eth --level lpar [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list system attributes for virtual Ethernet adapters   lshwres -r virtualio  --rsubtype eth --level sys [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list virtual fibre channel adapter attributes  lshwres -r virtualio  --rsubtype fc --level lpar [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list system attributes for virtual fibre channel adapters  lshwres -r virtualio  --rsubtype fc --level sys [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list virtual SCSI adapter attributes   lshwres -r virtualio  --rsubtype scsi [ --level lpar ] [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list virtual serial adapter attributes   lshwres -r virtualio  --rsubtype serial --level lpar [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list partition attributes for virtual I/O slots   lshwres -r virtualio  --rsubtype slot --level lpar [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list virtual I/O slot attributes   lshwres -r virtualio  --rsubtype slot --level slot [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   To list recoverable virtual I/O resources  lshwres -r virtualio --rsubtype slot -- level slot -R [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   To list high-speed link (HSL) pools for all  logical partitions   lshwres -r virtualio --rsubtype hsl [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list Virtual OptiConnect pools for all  logical partitions  lshwres -r virtualio --rsubtype virtualopti [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list the physical s  lshwres -r hea --rsubtype phys --level sys [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list the physical s ports   lshwres -r hea --rsubtype phys --level port [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list the physical s port performance metrics  lshwres -r hea --rsubtype phys --level port --stat [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list the physical s port groups  lshwres -r hea --rsubtype phys --level port_group [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list the logical s and resource settings  lshwres -r hea --rsubtype logical --level sys [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list the logical ports  lshwres -r hea --rsubtype logical --level port [-R] [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ] To list the virtual Ethernet topology  lshwres -r virtualio --rsubtype eth --level lpar -F device_name,drc_name,shared_adapter,backing_device   Description The lshwres command lists  the hardware resources of the managed-system, including physical I/O, virtual I/O, memory, and processing.   Flags Flag name Description -r ResourceType --rsubtype ResourceSubtype --level ResourceLevel The combination of -r, --rsubtype, and --level indicates which type of attributes and objects to list.  The valid combinations are enumerated below. -r io --rsubtype bus: List attributes for physical I/O buses Attributes:  unit_phys_loc,bus_id,backplane_phys_loc,bus_drc_index,bus_drc_name  Filters: units, buses   -r io --rsubtype iopool -level sys: List attributes for physical I/O pools Attributes:  max_io_pools Filters: none -r io --rsubtype iopool -level pool: List attributes for physical I/O pools Attributes:  io_pool_id, lpar_ids, slots Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, pools -r io --rsubtype slot: List attributes for physical I/O slots Attributes: unit_phys_loc, bus_id, phys_loc, drc_index, lpar_name, lpar_id, slot_io_pool_id, description, feature_codes,  adapter_feature_codes, , pci_vendor_id, pci_device_id, pci_subs_vendor_id, pci_subs_device_id, pci_class, pci_revision_id, bus_grouping, iop, iop_info_stale,vpd_stale, vpd_type, vpd_model, vpd_serial_num, parent_slot_drc_index, drc_name  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, units, buses, slots, pools   -r io --rsubtype slot -R: List attributes for physical I/O slots Attributes: drc_index, lpar_name, lpar_id, drc_name Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, units, buses, slots, pools -r io --rsubtype taggedio: List attributes for tagged I/O resources Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id, load_source_slot, alt_restart_device_slot, recent_alt_restart_device_slot, console_slot, alt_console_slot, op_console_slot Filters:  {lpar_ids | lpar_names} -r io --rsubtype unit: List attributes for physical I/O units Attributes: unit_phys_loc  Filters: units   -r hea --rsubtype phys --level sys Attributes: adapter_id, state, phys_loc Filters: adapter_ids -r hea --rsubtype phys --level port_group Attributes: adapter_id, port_group, phys_port_ids, unassigned_logical_port_ids, curr_port_group_mcs_value, pend_port_group_mcs_value, valid_port_group_mcs_values Filters: adapter_ids, port_groups -r hea --rsubtype phys --level port Attributes: adapter_id, port_group, phys_port_id, phys_port_type, phys_port_state, conn_state, curr_conn_speed, config_conn_speed, curr_duplex, config_duplex, trans_flow_control, recv_flow_control, config_flow_control, max_recv_packet_size, promisc_lpar_id, promisc_lpar_name, logical_port_ids, phys_port_loc Filters: adapter_ids, port_groups   -r hea --rsubtype phys --level port --stat Attributes: adapter_id, port_group, phys_port_id, recv_octets, recv_packets_0_64, recv_packets_65_127, recv_packets_128_255, recv_packets_256_511, recv_packets_512_1023, recv_packets_1024_max, recv_packets_dropped_bad_FCS, recv_packets_dropped_internal_mac_error, recv_packets_dropped_in_range_length_error, recv_packets_dropped_out_of_range_length_error, recv_packets_dropped_frame_too_long, recv_packets_dropped_jabber, recv_symbol_error, recv_code_error,recv_runt_frame, recv_fragments, recv_unsupported_opcode, recv_control_pause_frames, recv_search_busy, recv_packets_dropped_filter, recv_packets_dropped_other, recv_packets_dropped_alignment, recv_MC_packets, recv_BC_packets, trans_MC_packets, trans_BC_packets, trans_octets, trans_packets_length_0_64, trans_packets_length_65_127, trans_packets_length_128_255, trans_packets_length_255_511, trans_packets_length_512_1023, trans_packets_length_1024_max, trans_packets_dropped_bad_FCS, trans_control_pause_frames, trans_tx_local_fault_packets, trans_tx_remote_fault_packets, trans_tx_packets_dropped_int_MAC_error, trans_packets_retried_single_collision, trans_packets_retried_multiple_collision, trans_packets_signal_quality, trans_packets_deferred, trans_packets_late_collisions, trans_packets_excessive_collisions, trans_packets_no_carrier, recv_overrun_frames_dropped Filters: adapter_ids, port_groups -r hea --rsubtype logical --level sys Attributes: adapter_id, lpar_id, lpar_name, drc_index, drc_name, capabilities, ieq, nieq, qp, cq, mr Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, adapter_ids -r hea --rsubtype logical --level port Attributes: adapter_id, lpar_id, lpar_name, state, port_group, phys_port_id, logical_port_id, drc_index, drc_name, mac_addr, user_def_mac_addr, vlan_id_list Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, adapter_ids, port_groups   -r mem --level lpar: List partition attributes for memory Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id,  curr_min_mem, curr_mem, curr_max_mem, pend_min_mem, pend_mem, pend_max_mem, run_min_mem, run_mem  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names} -r mem --level lpar -R: List partition attributes for memory Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id, pend_mem, run_mem Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names} -r mem --level lpar -stat: List partition attributes for memory Attributes: min_io_entitled_mem, optimial_io_entitled_mem, max_io_entitled_mem_usage Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}   -r mem --level sys [--maxmem]: List system attributes for memory Attributes: configurable_sys_mem, curr_avail_sys_mem, pend_avail_sys_mem, installed_sys_mem, deconfig_sys_mem, sys_firmware_mem, mem_region_size,  pend_mem_region_size, possible_mem_region_size,  Additional attributes with --maxmem:  required_min_mem_aix_linux, required_min_mem_os400 Filters: None -r mempool : List system attributes for memory pools Attributes: curr_pool_mem, pend_pool_mem, curr_max_pool_mem, pend_max_pool_mem, sys_firmware_pool_mem, paging_storage_pool, paging_vios_names, paging_vios_ids Filters: None -r mempool -R: List system attributes for recoverable memory pool resources Attributes: curr_pool_mem, pend_pool_mem, curr_max_pool_mem, pend_max_pool_mem, sys_firmware_pool_mem, paging_storage_pool, paging_vios_names, paging_vios_ids Filters: None   -r mempool --rsubtype pgdev: List paging devices associated with the memory pool Attributes: device_name, size, state, type, phys_loc, storage_pool, lpar_name, lpar_id, paging_vios_name, paging_vios_id,  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names} -r proc --level lpar: List partition attributes for processors Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id, curr_shared_proc_pool_id, curr_proc_mode, curr_min_proc_units, curr_proc_units, curr_max_proc_units, curr_min_procs, curr_procs, curr_max_procs, curr_sharing_mode, curr_uncap_weight, pend_shared_proc_pool_id, pend_proc_mode, pend_min_proc_units, pend_proc_units, pend_max_proc_units, pend_min_procs, pend_procs, pend_max_procs, pend_sharing_mode, pend_uncap_weight, run_proc_units, run_procs, run_uncap_weight  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names} -r proc --level lpar -R: List partition attributes for processors Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id, curr_proc_mode, curr_sharing_mode, pend_proc_mode, pend_proc_units, pend_procs, pend_sharing_mode, pend_uncap_weight, run_proc_units, run_procs, run_uncap_weight  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}   -r proc --level pool: List shared processor pool attributes Attributes: shared_proc_pool_id, configurable_pool_proc_units, curr_avail_pool_proc_units, pend_avail_pool_proc_units  Filters: None -r proc --level sys: List system attributes for processors Attributes: configurable_sys_proc_units, curr_avail_sys_proc_units, pend_avail_sys_proc_units, installed_sys_proc_units, deconfig_sys_proc_units, min_proc_units_per_virtual_proc, max_shared_proc_pools, max_virtual_procs_per_lpar, max_procs_per_lpar Filters: None -r virtualio --rsubtype eth --level lpar: List virtual Ethernet adapter attributes Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id, slot_num, state, ieee_virtual_eth, port_vlan_id, addl_vlan_ids, is_trunk, trunk_priority, is_required, mac_addr  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, vlans, slots   -r virtualio --rsubtype eth --level sys: List system attributes for virtual Ethernet adapters Attributes: max_vlans_per_port, mac_prefix  Filters: None -r virtualio --rsubtype eth --level lpar -F device_name,drc_name,shared_adapter,backing device: List virtual Ethernet adapter attributes  The shared_adapter and backing_device are empty for all logical partitions other than the Virtual I/O Server. These attributes might be empty on the Virtual I/O Server if the Integrated Virtualization Manager cannot retrieve the information or if no such adapter exists (shared_adapter) or if no such shared Ethernet adapter (backing_device) exists.  Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id, slot_num, state, ieee_virtual_eth, port_vlan_id, addl_vlan_ids, is_trunk, trunk_priority, is_required, mac_addr  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, vlans, slots -r virtualio --rsubtype fc --level lpar: List information about virtual fibre channel adapters for each logical partition Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id, slot_num, adapter_type, remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name, remote_slot_num, is_required, wwpns, state  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, slots   -r virtualio --rsubtype fc --level sys: List system attributes for virtual fibre channel adapters Attributes: num_wwpns_remaining, wwpn_prefix  Filters: None -r virtualio --rsubtype fc --level lpar -F topology: List information about virtual fibre channel adapters for each logical partition in the form of a slash delimited list (for example, vd_name/status/fc_client_name/fc_server_name/phys_port_name)Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id, slot_num, adapter_type, remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name, remote_slot_num, is_required, wwpns, state  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, slots -r virtualio --rsubtype hsl: List system attributes for high-speed link Attributes: hsl_pool_id, lpar_names, lpar_ids Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, pools   -r virtualio --rsubtype scsi --level lpar: List virtual SCSI adapter attributes Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id, slot_num, state, adapter_type, remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name, remote_slot_num, is_required  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, slots -r virtualio --rsubtype scsi --level lpar -F topology: List virtual SCSI adapter attributes in the form of a slash delimited list (for example, vd_name/status/vscsi_client_name/bd_sp_name/bd_name) The bd_sp_name might be empty if the Virtual I/O Server uses physical volumes rather than a storage pool. Attributes: vd_name, vscsi_client_name, vscsi_server_name, bd_sp_name, bd_name Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, slots   -r virtualio --rsubtype slot --level lpar: List partition attributes for virtual I/O slots Attributes: lpar_name, lpar_id, curr_max_virtual_slots, pend_max_virtual_slots  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names} -r virtualio --rsubtype slot --level slot: List virtual I/O slot attributes Attributes: slot_num, lpar_name, lpar_id, config, state, drc_name  Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, slots  -r virtualio --rsubtype slot --level slot -R: List virtual I/O slot attributes Attributes: slot_num, lpar_name, lpar_id, drc_name Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, slots   -r virtualio --rsubtype virtualopti: List virtual OptiConnect resource attributes Attributes: virtual_opti_pool_id, lpar_names, lpar_ids Filters: {lpar_ids | lpar_names}, pools --maxmem MaximumMemory When this option is specified, the required minimum memory amount needed for partitions to support  the maximum  memory  quantity specified is listed.  All memory quantities are in megabytes, and are a  multiple  of  the  memory region size for the managed- system.   This information is useful  for  specifying  memory amounts in partition profiles.    This option is only valid when listing system level memory resources. -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. --filter  FilterData The filters to apply to the resources to be listed. Filters are used to select which resources of  the specified resource type are to be listed. If no filters are used, then all of the resources of the specified resource type will be listed. For example, specific partitions can be listed by using a filter to specify the names or IDs of the partitions to list. Otherwise, if no filter is used, then all the partitions in the managed system will be listed. The filter data consists of filter name/value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format. The filter data must be enclosed in double quotation marks.  The format of the filter data is as follows:  "filter-name=value,filter-name=value,..."  Note that certain filters accept a comma separated list of values, as follows: ""filter-name=value,value,...",..."  When a list of values is specified, the filter name/value pair must be enclosed in double quotation marks. Depending on the shell being used, nested double quotation marks characters might need to be preceded by an escape character, which is usually a '\'  character.  Unless otherwise indicated, multiple values can be specified for each filter.  Valid filter names:  adapter_ids The DRC index of the  in hexadecimal buses The bus ID of the I/O bus to view lpar_ids | lpar_names Name or ID of the logical partition to view  The filter value of none for lpar_ids is supported and displays only paging devices that are not currently assigned to any logical partition.  If the memory pool does not exist, and you use the -r mempool --rsubtype pgdev attribute, an error is displayed. pools The pool ID of the I/O pool to view port_groups The   port group or groups slots For physical I/O slots, the DRC index of the slot to view. For virtual I/O slots, the virtual slot number of the slot to view units The physical location code of the unit to view vlans The virtual LAN of the virtual Ethernet adapters to view -F AttributeNames A delimiter separated list of attribute names for the desired attribute values to be displayed for each resource. If no attribute names are specified, then values for all of the attributes for the resource will be displayed.   When this option is specified, only attribute values will be displayed. No attribute names will be displayed. The attribute values displayed will be separated by the delimiter which was specified with this option.    This option is useful when only attribute values are desired to be displayed, or when the values of only selected attributes are desired to be displayed.  Attribute names:     adapter_descriptions Indicates a description of the adapter. adapter_feature_codes List of possible feature codes for the I/O adapter sorted by likely match. aix_feature_code1/linux_feature_code1, /i5_feature_code1,aix_feature_code2/ linux_feature_code2/i5_feature_code2,... adapter_id Indicates the DRC index of the  in hexadecimal.   adapter_type Indicates whether the virtual SCSI, virtual fibre channel, or serial adapter is a client or server.  Valid values are client and server. addl_vlan_ids The list of additional IEEE 802.1Q virtual LANs (VLANs) on a virtual Ethernet adapter. alt_console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the alternate console device for the  logical partition. The default value is none.    alt_restart_device_attached Whether this IOP has an alternate restart device.  Valid values are: 0 - not attached 1 - attached alt_restart_device_capable Whether the IOP is capable of being tagged as the alternate restart device. The default values is 0 (not capable). alt_restart_device_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the alternate restart device for the  logical partition. If the load source slot has a value other than none, this attribute is optional. Valid values are:  Slot number (for virtual I/O) None auto_io_entitled_mem Indicates whether the I/O entitled memory of the partition is automatically managed. Valid values follow: 0 (Not managed/custom) 1 (Automatically managed)  This attribute is only displayed by default if the mem_mode attribute is shared. If the value is dedicated and the attribute is requested, the value is null. auto_mem_region_size Indicates the optimal size of the memory region, as automatically calculated by the firmware.   The memory region size applies to the entire system and requires you to reboot the entire system. backing_device The name of the physical Ethernet adapter that is connected to the shared Ethernet adapter on the virtual I/O server (VIOS). For example, ent0. backplane_phys_loc Physical location code of the backplane on which the bus resides.   bus_drc_index DRC index, in hex, of the bus.   bus_drc_name DRC name of the bus. bus_grouping Indicates whether bus grouping is required.  Possible values: 0 - not required  1 - required bus_id I/O bus unique ID.   capabilities Values currently applied to the system. config Virtual slot configuration state.  Possible values follow: empty - no adapter  ethernet - virtual Ethernet adapter  fc - virtual fibre channel adapter reserved - reserved slot scsi - virtual SCSI adapter  serial - virtual serial adapter  vasi - virtual asynchronous services interface vmc - virtual management channel adapter config_conn_speed The configured connection speed of the port in megabits per second.  This value can be set by the user using chhwres.  Possible values are: auto 10 100 1000 10000   config_duplex Configured duplex value of the port.  This value can be set by the user using chhwres.  Possible values are: auto half full   config_flow_control Configured flow control value of the port. This value is used for both the receive and transmit flow control. This attribute can also be set using the chhwres command. Possible values are: 1 (enabled) 0 (disabled) configurable_pool_proc_units Total number of configurable processing units in the shared processing pool.   configurable_sys_mem Total amount, in megabytes, of configurable memory on the managed system. configurable_sys_proc_units Total number of configurable processing units on the managed system. conn_state Connection state or link state of the physical port. Possible values are: 1 (up) 0 (down) unavailable   cq Total number of completion queues. console_capable  Whether the IOP is capable of being tagged as the console device.  Valid values are: 0 - not capable 1 - capable console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the console device for the  logical partition. Valid values are:  Slot number (for virtual I/O) None   curr_avail_pool_proc_units Current number of configurable processing units in the shared processing pool that are not assigned to partitions. curr_avail_sys_mem Current amount, in megabytes, of configurable memory on the managed system that is not assigned to partitions. curr_avail_sys_proc_units Current number of  configurable processing units on the managed system that are not assigned to partitions.   curr_conn_speed Speed of the port in Mbps. Possible values are:  10 100 1000 10000 unavailable curr_duplex Duplex value of the port. Valid values are: half full unavailable curr_io_entitled_mem The current I/O entitled memory of the partition in megabytes.  This attribute is only displayed, by default, if the value of the mem_mode attribute is Shared. If the value is Dedicated and the attribute is requested, the value is null.   curr_max_mem Maximum amount of memory, in megabytes, that can be dynamically assigned to the partition. curr_max_pool_mem Maximum amount of physical memory that can be assigned to the memory pool without taking the pool offline.  This value is in megabytes. curr_max_proc_units Maximum number of processing units that can be dynamically assigned to the partition.  This attribute is only valid for partitions using shared processors.   curr_max_procs Maximum number of processors or virtual processors that can be dynamically assigned to the partition. curr_max_virtual_slots Maximum number of virtual slots that can be dynamically configured for the partition. curr_mem Current amount of memory, in megabytes, assigned to the partition.   curr_mem_weight The current shared memory weight of the partition.  Possible values are 0 through 255. This attribute is only displayed by default if the mem_mode attribute is set to the shared value.  If the value is dedicated and the attribute is requested, the value is null. curr_min_mem Minimum amount of memory, in megabytes, that can be dynamically assigned to the partition. curr_min_proc_units Minimum number of processing units that can be dynamically assigned to the partition.  This attribute is only valid for partitions using shared processors.    curr_min_procs Minimum number of processors or virtual processors that can be dynamically assigned to the partition. curr_pool_mem The amount of physical memory currently assigned to the memory pool in megabytes.   curr_port_group_mcs_value The current MCS value for the port group.   curr_proc_mode Indicates whether the partition is using dedicated or shared processors.  The mode cannot change dynamically. Valid values: ded - dedicated  shared - shared curr_proc_units The current number of processing units assigned to the partition.  This attribute is only valid for partitions using shared processors. curr_procs The current number of processors or virtual processors assigned to the partition.   curr_shared_proc_pool_id The shared processor pool that this partition is currently participating in.  This attribute is only valid for partitions using shared processors. curr_sharing_mode The current sharing mode for a partition.  Valid values: keep_idle_procs - valid with dedicated processor mode  share_idle_procs - valid with dedicated processor mode  share_idle_procs_always - valid with dedicated processor mode share_idle_procs_active - valid with dedicated processor mode cap - capped mode. valid with shared processor mode  uncap - uncapped mode. valid with shared processor mode curr_uncap_weight The current weighted average of processing priority when in uncapped sharing mode. Valid values are 0 - 255.   deconfig_sys_mem The amount of memory, in megabytes, on the managed system that has been unconfigured.  This includes memory that has been unconfigured by the system due to hardware failure, and memory that has been manually unconfigured. deconfig_sys_proc_units The number of processing units on the managed system that have been unconfigured.  This includes processing units that have been unconfigured by the system due to hardware failure, and processing units that have been manually unconfigured. description A description of the I/O adapter which is in the slot.   device_name The Virtual I/O Server device used as a paging space device in the memory pool.  direct_console_capable Whether the IOP is capable of being tagged as the console device for directly attached console.  Valid values are:  0 - not capable 1 - capable drc_index The DRC index, in hexadecimal, of the I/O slot.   drc_name The DRC name of the I/O slot.   feature_codes The most likely feature code for the I/O adapter. The feature code may be different for each operating system. The adapter_feature_codes attribute should be used to distinguish the feature code specific to each operating system. hsl_pool_id Whether the logical partition participates in the high-speed Link (HSL) pool. The default value is 0 (does not participate). ieee_virtual_eth Indicates whether the virtual Ethernet adapter is using IEEE 802.1Q. Valid values follow:  0 - No 1 - Yes   ieq Total number of interruptible event queues. installed_sys_mem Total amount, in megabytes, of memory installed on the managed system. installed_sys_proc_units Total number of processing units installed on the managed system.   io_pool_id A unique identifier for an I/O pool.  I/O pools are used in some I/O clustering environments. iop Indicates whether the I/O adapter is an I/O processor.  Valid values: 0 - no  1 - yes iop_info_stale Indicates whether the information about the I/O processor is stale. Valid values: 0 - no  1 - yes   is_required Indicates whether the I/O slot or virtual I/O adapter is required for the partition.  Valid values: 0 - no  1 - yes is_trunk Indicates whether the virtual Ethernet adapter is the trunk or uplink adapter for the virtual LAN.  Valid values: 0 - no  1 - yes lan_console_capable Whether the IOP is capable of being tagged as the console device for a LAN console. The default values is 0 (not capable).   load_source_attached Whether this IOP has a load source device.  Valid values:  0 - not attached  1 - attached load_source_capable Whether this IOP is capable of being tagged as the load source device.  The default values is 0 (not capable). 	 load_source_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the load source for the  logical partition. If the alt_restart_device_slot has a value other than none, then this attribute is optional. Valid values are:  Slot number (for virtual I/O) None   logical_port_id The ID of the logical port. logical_port_ids Logical port IDs defined on the physical port. lpar_id Partition ID.  Valid values are 1 through the maximum number of partitions supported on the managed system (max_lpars).  When using the --rsubtype pgdev flag, this attribute represents the partition ID of the shared memory partition to which this paging device is associated.  If no partition is associated, then the value is none.   lpar_ids List of logical partition IDs of logical partitions using a pool. lpar_name User-defined name for the partition.  When using the --rsubtype pgdev flag, this attribute represents the name of the shared memory partition to which this paging device is associated.  If no partition is associated, this attribute is not displayed by default. If no partition is associated but the attribute is requested, the attribute will have a blank value. lpar_names List of names of logical partitions using a pool.   mac_addr MAC address for the virtual Ethernet adapter. mac_prefix The first 3 bytes of the MAC address to be assigned to all virtual Ethernet adapters for this managed system.  This must be specified as a 3 byte hexadecimal value (for example, 32ab10) and can only be configured in the mkgencfg command. max_io_entitled_mem_usage The highest level of I/O entitled memory used by the specified logical partition since the value was last reset.   max_io_pools Maximum number of I/O pools supported on the managed system. max_mem_pools Maximum number of memory pools supported. If the system does not support memory pools, then the value is 0; otherwise, it is 1.  max_paging_vios_per_mem_pool Maximum number of paging Virtual I/O Server (VIOS) partitions that can be assigned to a memory pool.  If the system supports memory pools, this value is 1.   max_procs_per_lpar Indicates the largest number of dedicated processors that you can assign as the maximum processors value for a logical partition.   max_recv_packet_size Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) size of the port. This value can also be changed using the chhwres command. Possible values: 1500 (default) 9000 (jumbo) max_shared_proc_pools Maximum number of shared processing pools which are supported on the managed system. max_virtual_procs_per_lpar Indicates the largest number of virtual processors that can be assigned as the maximum processors value for a logical partition.   max_vlans_per_port Indicates the largest number of VLANs that can be specified as additional IEEE 802.1Q VLANs on a virtual Ethernet adapter. mem_mode Partition memory mode.  ded: Dedicated memory shared: Shared memory mem_region_size The memory region size, in megabytes, for the managed system.  The memory regions size represents the granularity of memory allocation to partitions.   min_io_entitled_mem The minimum I/O entitled memory required for the logical partition to function with the current I/O configuration. min_proc_units_per_virtual_proc Minimum number of processing units that are required for each virtual processor assigned to a partition. mr Total number of memory regions.   nieq Total number of non-interruptible event queues. num_wwpns_remaining The number of worldwide port names that remain to be allocated on the managed system. op_console_attached Whether this IOP has an operations console device.  This attribute is only shown if iop is 1. This attribute is current only if vpd_stale is 0. Valid values are:  0 - not capable 1 - attached   op_console_capable Whether this IOP is capable of being tagged as the console device for operations console.  This attribute is only shown if iop is 1.  This attribute is current only if vpd_stale is 0.  The default value is 0 (not capable). op_console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the directly attached Operations Console device for the  logical partition. The default value is none. optimal_io_entitled_mem The amount of I/O entitled memory that would satisfy the requested configuration of all I/O devices.   paging_storage_pool The name of default paging storage pool.  This attribute is the storage pool from which new paging devices are created.  If there is no default paging storage pool, the value is an empty string. paging_vios_id The partition ID of the paging VIOS partition. paging_vios_ids A comma-separated list of partition IDs for paging VIOS partitions associated with this memory pool.  This attribute is not displayed by default.  If requested, the value displayed is 1.   paging_vios_name The name of the paging VIOS partition. paging_vios_names A comma-separated list of partition names for paging VIOS partitions that are associated with this memory pool.  This attribute is not displayed by default.  If requested, the value displayed is the name of the Virtual I/O Server logical partition. parent_slot_drc_index The DRC index, in hex, of the parent slot.  A value of none indicates there is no parent slot.   pci_class PCI class code for the I/O adapter.  This value is displayed in hexadecimal. pci_device_id ID of the device for this I/O adapter.  This value is displayed in hexadecimal. pci_revision_id Vendor-assigned code indicating the revision number of the I/O adapter.  This value is displayed in hexadecimal.   pci_subs_device_id Vendor-assigned code identifying the type of driver that is installed for the I/O adapter.  This value is displayed in hexadecimal. pci_subs_vendor_id ID of the vendor that made the driver for the  I/O adapter.  This value is displayed in hexadecimal. pci_vendor_id ID of the vendor that made this I/O adapter.  This value is displayed in hexadecimal.   pend_avail_pool_proc_units After system restart, the number of configurable processing units in the shared processing pool that are not assigned to partitions. pend_avail_sys_mem After system restart, the amount, in megabytes, of configurable memory on the managed system that is not assigned to partitions. pend_avail_sys_proc_units After system restart, the number of  configurable processing units on the managed system that are not assigned to partitions.   pend_io_entitled_mem The pending I/O entitled memory of the partition in megabytes.  This attribute is only displayed by default if the mem_mode attribute has a value of shared. If the value is dedicated and the attribute is requested, the value is null. pend_max_mem After partition restart, the maximum amount of memory, in megabytes, that can be dynamically assigned to the partition. pend_max_pool_mem The pending value for the maximum amount of physical memory that can be assigned to the memory pool without taking the memory pool offline.  This value is in megabytes.   pend_max_proc_units After partition restart, the maximum number of processing units that can be dynamically assigned to the partition.  This attribute is only valid for partitions using shared processors. pend_max_procs After partition restart, the maximum number of processors or virtual processors that can be dynamically assigned to the partition. pend_max_virtual_slots After partition restart, the maximum number of virtual slots that can be dynamically created for the partition.   pend_mem The target amount of memory, in megabytes, assigned to the partition. pend_mem_region_size This is the memory region size of the system after the system is restarted. pend_mem_weight The pending shared memory weight of the partition.  Possible values are 0 - 255. This attribute is only displayed by default if the mem_mode attribute is set to the shared value.  If the value is dedicated and the attribute is requested, the value is null.   pend_min_mem After partition restart, the minimum amount of memory, in megabytes, that can be dynamically assigned to the partition. pend_min_proc_units After partition restart, the minimum number of processing units that can be dynamically assigned to the partition.  This attribute is only valid for partitions using shared processors. pend_min_procs After partition restart, the minimum number of processors or virtual processors that can be dynamically assigned to the partition.   pend_pool_mem The amount of physical memory to be assigned to the memory pool in megabytes.  pend_port_group_mcs_value Pending MCS value of the port group. Setting the MCS value may require a system restart. pend_proc_mode Indicates whether the partition will be using dedicated or shared processors after restart. Valid values: ded: Dedicated  shared: Shared   pend_proc_units The target number of processing units assigned to the partition.  This attribute is only valid for partitions using shared processors. pend_procs The target number of processors or virtual processors assigned to the partition. pend_shared_proc_pool_id The shared processor pool that a partition is will participate in after restart.  This attribute is only valid for partitions using shared processors.   pend_sharing_mode The target sharing mode for a partition. Valid values: keep_idle_procs: Valid with pending dedicated processor mode  share_idle_procs: Valid with pending dedicated processor mode  cap - capped mode: Valid with pending shared processor mode  uncap - uncapped mode: Valid with pending shared processor mode pend_uncap_weight The target weighted average of processing priority when in uncapped sharing mode. Valid values are: 0 - 255.   phys_loc If the device has a physical location code for the slot, this attribute is displayed by default with the physical location code as the value.  If the device does not have a physical location code, this attribute is not displayed by default and has a blank value. phys_port_id The ID of the physical port in the port group (0 or 1). phys_port_ids List of host Ethernet adapter (HEA) physical port IDs in a port group.   phys_port_loc Location code suffix for the physical port. phys_port_state State of the physical port.   phys_port_type Speed of the port. port_group Indicates the   port group(s). port_vlan_id Port virtual LAN ID for the virtual ethernet adapter.   possible_mem_region_size The memory region size that is possible of the system. promisc_lpar_id ID assigned to the promiscuous logical partition. Possible values:  none 1 - 254 promisc_lpar_name Name assigned to the promiscuous logical partition.    qp The total number of queue pairs. recent_alt_restart_device_slot The previous alternate restart device slot. recv_flow_control Receive flow control value of the port 1 (enabled) 0 (disabled) unavailable   recv_octets, recv_packets_0_64, recv_packets_65_127, recv_packets_128_255, recv_packets_256_511, recv_packets_512_1023, recv_packets_1024_max, recv_packets_dropped_bad_FCS, recv_packets_dropped_internal_mac_error, recv_packets_dropped_in_range_length_error, recv_packets_dropped_out_of_range_length_error, recv_packets_dropped_frame_too_long, recv_packets_dropped_jabber, recv_symbol_error, recv_code_error, recv_runt_frame, recv_fragments, recv_unsupported_opcode, recv_control_pause_frames, recv_search_busy, recv_packets_dropped_filter, recv_packets_dropped_other, recv_packets_dropped_alignment, default_unicast_QPN, recv_MC_packets, recv_BC_packets, trans_MC_packets, trans_BC_packets, trans_octets, trans_packets_length_0_64, trans_packets_length_65_127, trans_packets_length_128_255, trans_packets_length_255_511, trans_packets_length_512_1023, trans_packets_length_1024_max, trans_packets_dropped_bad_FCS, trans_control_pause_frames, trans_tx_local_fault_packets, trans_tx_remote_fault_packets, trans_tx_packets_dropped_int_MAC_error, trans_packets_retried_single_collision, trans_packets_retried_multiple_collision, trans_packets_signal_quality, trans_packets_deferred, trans_packets_late_collisions, trans_packets_excessive_collisions, trans_packets_no_carrier, recv_overrun_frames_dropped Performance metric values remote_lpar_id For client adapters, this specifies the ID of the partition which has the virtual serial/SCSI server adapter for this adapter.  For server adapters, this specifies the ID of the partition which has the only client virtual serial/SCSI adapter allowed to connect to this adapter.  A value of any indicates that any client virtual serial/SCSI adapter should be allowed to connect to this adapter.   remote_lpar_name The partition name which corresponds to the remote_lpar_id. remote_slot_num For client adapters, this specifies the virtual slot number of the virtual serial/SCSI server adapter for this adapter.  For server adapters, this specifies the virtual slot number of the only client virtual serial/SCSI adapter allowed to connect to this adapter.  A value of any indicates that any client virtual serial/SCSI adapter should be allowed to connect to this adapter. required_min_mem_aix_linux For  partition, this is the required minimum memory amount, in megabytes, for the maximum memory amount specified with the --maxmem parameter.   required_min_mem_os400 The required minimum memory amount, in megabytes, for the maximum memory amount specified with the --maxmem parameter. This attribute only applies for an  logical partition. op_console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the directly attached Operations Console device for the  logical partition. The default value is none. run_io_entitled_mem The I/O entitled memory of the partition at run time in megabytes.  This attribute is only displayed by default if the mem_mode attribute has a value of shared. If the value is dedicated and the attribute is requested, the value is null. run_mem Current amount of memory, in megabytes, that the partition has varied on.   run_mem_weight The runtime shared memory weight of the logical partition.  Possible values are 0 - 255. This attribute is only displayed by default if the mem_mode attribute is set to the shared value.  If the value is dedicated and the attribute is requested, the value is null. run_min_mem The amount of memory, in megabytes, returned by a running partition's operating system to represent the smallest memory assignment which is currently supported by the operating system.  If the operating system does not support this feature, then the value is 0. run_proc_units Number of processing units that are varied on for the partition.   run_procs Number of processors or virtual processors that are varied on for the partition. run_uncap_weight The operating system's current setting for the weighted average of processing priority when in uncapped sharing mode. Valid values are: 0 - 255. shared_adapter The name of the shared Ethernet adapter on the VIOS. For example, ent9. shared_proc_pool_id A unique decimal identifier for a shared processing pool.    size The size of the paging device in megabytes.   slot_io_pool_id A unique decimal identifier of the I/O pool to which the slot is assigned.  A value of none indicates that the slot is not assigned to any I/O pools. slot_num Virtual slot number.   slots A list of slot DRC indices. state The state of a virtual slot.  A virtual slot must be able to transition into the off state before a dynamic reconfiguration of the slot can succeed.  Valid states follow: 0 - The virtual slot is ready for dynamic reconfiguration. 1 - The virtual slot is not yet ready for dynamic reconfiguration.  Active - The paging device is in use. Inactive - The paging device is available. Missing backing device - The backing device being used as a paging space device is missing. Defined - The backing device being used as a paging space device is defined. storage_pool If the device comes from a storage pool, this attribute is displayed by default with the storage pool as the value.  If the device does not come from a storage pool, this attribute is not displayed by default and has a blank value.   supports_hmc Indicates whether or not the virtual serial adapter is enabled for  client support.  Valid values: 0 - no  1 - yes sys_firmware_mem The amount of memory, in megabytes, on the managed system that is being used by system firmware. sys_firmware_pool_mem The amount of memory in the shared memory pool that is reserved for firmware use.  This is the greater of the current and pending values.   trans_flow_control Transmit flow control value of the port. Possible values are: 1 (enabled) 0 (disabled) unavailable trunk_priority The valid values are integers between 1 and 15, inclusive. This value is required for a trunk adapter.   unassigned_logical_port_ids List of logical port IDs in the port group that are not assigned to a partition. unit_phys_loc Physical location code of the I/O unit. user_def_mac_addr User defined MAC address for the logical port.   valid_port_group_mcs_values Valid MCS values. virtual_opti_pool_id The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the directly attached operations console device for the  logical partition. The default value is 0 (does not participate).     vlan_id_list List of virtual LAN IDs that the logical port has access to. vpd_model Model of the I/O adapter. vpd_serial_num Serial number of the I/O adapter.   vpd_stale Indicates whether or not type, model, and serial number of the adapter is not current. Valid values: 0 - not current  1 - current vpd_type Type of the I/O adapter.   wwpns If the adapter is of type client, the worldwide port names assigned to this adapter are displayed as a comma-separated list.  If the adapter is of type server, by default, the attribute is not displayed.  If the attribute is requested, the value is null. wwpn_prefix A 12-character hexadecimal string that is used by the managed system to generate worldwide port names. --header Display a header record, which is a delimiter separated list of attribute names for the attribute values that will be displayed. This header record will be the first record displayed. This option is only valid when used with the -F option. -R List information for partitions with  resources that can be restored due to a dynamic LPAR operation failure.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is accessible by all users.   Examples List system level memory information and include the minimum memory required to support a maximum of 1024 MB:        lshwres -r mem --level sys --maxmem 1024      List all memory information for partitions lpar1 and lpar2, and only display attribute values, following a header of attribute names:        lshwres -r mem --level lpar --filter "\"lpar_names=lpar1,lpar2\"" -F --header      List all I/O units on the system:        lshwres -r io --rsubtype unit      List all virtual Ethernet adapters on the managed system:        lshwres -r virtualio --rsubtype eth --level lpar      List all virtual slots for partition lpar1:        lshwres -r virtualio --rsubtype slot --level slot --filter "lpar_names=lpar1"      List only the installed and configurable processors on the system:        lshwres -r proc --level sys -F installed_sys_proc_units, configurable_sys_proc_units List all physical  ports on the system:  lshwres -r hea --rsubtype phys --level port List all logical  ports on the system:  lshwres -r hea --rsubtype logical --level port List the physical  adapters on the system:  lshwres -r hea --rsubtype phys --level sys List the  port groups on the system:  lshwres -r hea --rsubtype phys --level port_group   Related Information The  and  commands.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lsled command Purpose List states for physical and virtual LEDs. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To list physical platform LEDs:   lsled -r sa -t phys [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list virtual partition LEDs:   lsled -r sa -t virtuallpar [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list virtual platform LEDs:   lsled -r sa -t virtualsys [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The lsled command lists the states of physical and virtual LEDs.   Flags Flag name Description -r  ResourceType The type of LED resources to list. The only valid value is sa for System Attention (SA) LEDs. -t SystemAttentionType The type of System Attention (SA) LEDs to list. -r sa -t virtuallpar: List attributes for virtual partition system attention LEDs Attributes:  lpar_id, lpar_name, state  Filters: { lpar_ids | lpar_names} -r sa -t virtualsys: List attributes for virtual system attention LEDs Attributes:  state  Filters: None -r sa -t phys: List attributes for physical system attention LEDs Attributes:  state  Filters: None -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name might either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. --filter  FilterData The filters to apply to the resources to be listed. Filters are used to select which resources of  the specified resource type are to be listed. If no filters are used, then all of the resources of the specified resource type will be listed. For example, specific partitions can be listed by using a filter to specify the names or IDs of the partitions to list. Otherwise, if no filter is used, then all the partitions in the managed system will be listed. The filter data consists of filter name/value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format. The filter data must be enclosed in double quotation marks.  The format of the filter data is as follows:  "filter-name=value,filter-name=value,..."  Note that certain filters accept a comma separated list of values, as follows: ""filter-name=value,value,...",..."  When a list of values is specified, the filter name/value pair must be enclosed in double quotation marks. Depending on the shell being used, nested double quotation marks might need to be preceded by an escape character, which is usually a '\'  character.  Unless otherwise indicated, multiple values can be specified for each filter.  Valid filter names for -r lpar lpar_ids ID of the partitions to view lpar_names Name of the partitions to view -F  AttributeNames A delimiter separated list of attribute names for the desired attribute values to be displayed for each resource. If no attribute names are specified, then values for all of the attributes for the resource will be displayed.   When this option is specified, only attribute values will be displayed. No attribute names will be displayed. The attribute values displayed will be separated by the delimiter which was specified with this option.    This option is useful when only attribute values are desired to be displayed, or when the values of only selected attributes are desired to be displayed.  Attribute Names  lpar_id: Unique integer identifier for the partition lpar_name: name of the partition state: The current state of the LED.  Valid values: off - the LED is off  on - the LED is on --header Display a header record, which is a delimiter separated list of attribute names for the attribute values that will be displayed. This header record will be the first record displayed. This option is only valid when used with the -F option.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is accessible by all users.   Examples Display the physical system attention LED for the system:        lsled -r sa -t phys      Display all of the virtual partition system attention LEDs:        lsled -r sa -t virtuallpar      Display the virtual partition system attention LEDs for partitions lpar1 and lpar2:        lsled -r sa -t virtuallpar --filter \"lpar_names=lpar1,lpar2\"   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lslparmigr command Purpose Lists and displays partition migration information. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax lslparmigr  manager | lpar | msp | procpool | sys | virtualio  [ <managed system] [ <managed system>] [<target HMC/IVM IP address> [ <target HMC/IVM user name>]] [ "<filter data>"] [[<attribute names>]]   [] []   Description The lslparmigr command displays the state of the partition migration and the adapter mappings that might be used during the partition migration.   Flags Flag name Description -r   The type of resources for which to list partition migration information.  Specify lpar to list partition migration information for all of the partitions in managed-system.   Specify msp to list possible source and destination mover service partition (MSP) pairs for an active partition migration of the partition specified with the lpar_names or lpar_ids filter.   Specify procpool to list possible shared processor pools in the destination managed system that have enough available processing resources for the partition specified with the lpar_names or lpar_ids filter.  Specify sys to list the partition mobility capabilities for managed-system.   Specify virtualio to list possible and suggested mappings of the virtual SCSI adapters and virtual fibre channels in the partition specified with the lpar_names or lpar_ids filter to  in the destination managed system. Specify mempool to list details for each shared memory pool on the target managed system. Specify pgdev to list paging devices available on the target managed system. -m <managed system> The name of the source managed system. -t <managed system> The name of target managed system. --ip  The IP address or hostname of the  managing the target system.  -u  The user name to use on the  that manages the target system.  If the --ip flag is specified and -u  flag is not specified, the user name on the source  is used on the target . --filter <filter data>  The filter or filters to apply to the resources to be listed. Filters are used to select which resources are to be listed. If no filters are used, then all of the resources will be listed. For example, partition information can be listed by using a filter to specify the names or IDs of the partitions to list. Otherwise, if no filter is used, then information for all of the partitions in the managed system will be listed.  The filter data consists of filter name/value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format. The filter data must be enclosed in quotation marks.  The format of the filter data is as follows:  "filter-name=value,filter-name=value,..."    Certain filters accept a comma separated list of values, as follows:  ""filter-name=value,value,...",..."  When a list of values is specified, the filter name/value pair must be enclosed in quotation marks. Depending on the shell being used, nested quotation marks may need to be preceded by an escape character, which is usually a '\' character. Valid filter names:  lpar_names | lpar_ids  Only one of these filters may be specified -F [<attribute names>] List of the names of the attributes.  If no attribute names are specified, then all attributes will be listed. -redundantpgvios Specify the configured level of redundancy for the memory pools to be listed. 0 Do not require redundancy on the target managed system. 1 Only return memory pool information for those that are capable of redundancy.  2 Return all memory pool information regardless of redundancy capabilities. If you do not specify the parameter, memory pools capable of the currently configured level of redundancy are returned.  Exactly one partition must be specified by either the lpar_ids filter or lpar_names filter.  If no suitable memory pools are found on the destination managed system, the destination IVM generates an error message that describes the problem. --header Displays a header record, which is a delimiter separated list of attribute names for the attribute values that are displayed. This header record is the first record displayed. This option is only valid when used with the -F option. --help Displays the help text for this command and exit.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Examples To return partition mobility capabilities for the  or the , type the following command: lslparmigr -r manager remote_lpar_mobility_capable=1 To return partition mobility capabilities for the specified managed system, type the following command: lslparmigr -m zd25ae -r sys inactive_lpar_mobility_capable=1,num_inactive_migrations_supported=40, num_inactive_migrations_in_progress=0, active_lpar_mobility_capable=1,num_active_migrations_supported=40, num_active_migrations_in_progress=0 To return a list of partitions on the specified managed system and their migration state, type the following command: $ lslparmigr -r lpar name=10-0EDDA,lpar_id=1,migration_state=Not Migrating name=mptest_migration,lpar_id=2,migration_state=Not Migrating name=lp3,lpar_id=3,migration_state=Not Migrating name=mp_i51,lpar_id=4,migration_state=Not Migrating name=mover2,lpar_id=5,migration_state=Migration Starting, migration_type=active,dest_sys_name=migfspL4, dest_lpar_id=5,source_msp_name=10-0EDDA,source_msp_id=1, dest_msp_name=10-0EDEA,dest_msp_id=1,bytes_transmitted=10247078, bytes_remaining=259547136, remote_manager=miglpar9.yourcity.yourcompany.com, remote_user=padmin name=lpar10,lpar_id=10,migration_state=Not Migrating To return a list of possible source and destination MSP pairs, type the following command: lslparmigr -r msp -m migfspL2 -t migfspL1 source_msp_name=VIOS,source_msp_id=2,"dest_msp_names=VIOS,VIOS2", "dest_msp_ids=1,3","ipaddr_mappings=192.168.10.10/en1/1/VIOS/192. 168.10.11/en1,192.168.20.10/en2/3/VIOS2/192.168.20.13/en0" source_msp_name=VIOS2,source_msp_id=1,"dest_msp_names=VIOS,VIOS2", "dest_msp_ids=1,3","ipaddr_mappings=192.168.10.12/en0/1/VIOS/192. 168.10.11/en1,192.168.20.12/en1/3/VIOS2/192.168.20.13/en0" To return a list of possible and suggested mappings for virtual SCSI and virtual Ethernet adapters, type the following command: lslparmigr -r virtualio -m migfspL2 -t migfspL1 --filter "lpar_ids=5" "possible_virtual_scsi_mappings=2/VIOS/1,2/VIOS2/3", "suggested_virtual_scsi_mappings=2/VIOS/1" To return a list of existing shared processor pools on the target managed system, type the following command: lslparmigr -r procpool -m migfspL2 -t migfspL1 --filter "lpar_ids=5" "shared_proc_pool_ids=0,3,6","shared_proc_pool_names= DefaultPool,ProcPoolA,ProcPoolB" To return a list of possible and suggested mappings for virtual fibre channel adapters, type the following command: lslparmigr -r virtualio -m migfspL2 -t migfspL1 --filter "lpar_ids=5" "possible_virtual_scsi_mappings=2/VIOS/1", "suggested_virtual_scsi_mappings=2/VIOS/1" "possible_virtual_fc_mappings=4/VIOS/1,4/VIOS2/2", "suggested_virtual_fc_mappings=4/VIOS/1"   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lslparutil command Purpose List utilization metrics for the managed system and partitions. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To list utilization metrics:   lslparutil {-r sys | pool | lpar} [ --startyear Year ] [ --startmonth Month ] [ --startday Day ] [ --starthour Hour ] [ --startminute Minute ] [ --endyear Year ] [ --endmonth Month ] [ --endday Day ] [ --endhour Hour ] [ --endminute Minute ] [ -n NumberOfEvents ] ] [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list utilization configuration attributes:   lslparutil -r config [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The lslparutil command lists utilization metrics for the managed system and partitions.  The sample rate at which these metrics are gathered can be changed, or disabled. The information gathered from this command allows for the determination of processor utilization on a system and partition level over a given period of time.   Flags Flag name Description -r ResourceType The type of resources to list: -r config: List configuration attributes for utilization monitoring Attributes: sample_rate  Filters: None -r lpar: List utilization data for logical partitions Attributes: time, time_bin, sys_time, event_type, resource_type, time_cycles, lpar_id, uptime, curr_proc_mode, curr_proc_units, curr_procs, curr_sharing_mode, curr_uncap_weight, curr_5250_cpw_percent, curr_mem, entitled_cycles, capped_cycles, uncapped_cycles, donated_cycles, idle_cycles, run_latch_instructions, run_latch_cycles,  Filters: { lpar_ids | lpar_names} -r mempool: List information and statistics about memory pools Attributes: time, time_bin, sys_time, event_type, resource_type, page_faults, page_in_delay, curr_pool_mem, lpar_curr_io_entitled_mem, lpar_mapped_io_entitled_mem, lpar_run_mem, sys_firmware_pool_mem -r pool: List utilization data for shared processor pools Attributes:  time, time_bin, sys_time, event_type, resource_type, time_cycles, shared_proc_pool_id, curr_avail_pool_proc_units, configurable_pool_proc_units, borrowed_pool_proc_units, total_pool_cycles, utilized_pool_cycles  Filters: None -r sys: List utilization data for the managed system Attributes:  time, time_bin, sys_time, event_type, resource_type, state, configurable_sys_proc_units, configurable_sys_mem, curr_avail_sys_proc_units, curr_avail_5250_cpw_percent, curr_avail_sys_mem, sys_firmware_mem, proc_cycles_per_second  Filters: None --startyear Year Starting year filter (default 1970) --startmonth Month 	 	 Starting month filter (default 1) January is 1. December is 12 --startday Day  Starting day filter (default 1) 	 --starthour Hour Starting hour filter (default 0) 	  --startminute Minute Starting minute filter (default 0) --endyear Year 		 Ending year filter (default now)  --endmonth Month Ending month filter (default now) 	 --endday Day Ending day filter (default now) 	 	 --endhour Hour  Ending hour filter (default now) --endminute Minute  Ending minute filter (default now) --n  NumberOfEvents Starting from the most recent event, the maximum number of samples to return. --spread   Used with -n to distribute displayed samples evenly over time.  -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name might either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. --filter FilterData The filters to apply to the resources to be listed. Filters are used to select which resources of  the specified resource type are to be listed. If no filters are used, then all of the resources of the specified resource type will be listed. For example, specific partitions can be listed by using a filter to specify the names or IDs of the partitions to list. Otherwise, if no filter is used, then all the partitions in the managed system will be listed. The filter data consists of filter name/value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format. The filter data must be enclosed in double quotation marks.  The format of the filter data is as follows:  "filter-name=value,filter-name=value,..."  Note that certain filters accept a comma separated list of values, as follows: ""filter-name=value,value,...",..."  When a list of values is specified, the filter name/value pair must be enclosed in double quotation marks. Depending on the shell being used, nested double quotation marks might need to be preceded by an escape character, which is usually a '\'  character.     Unless otherwise indicated, multiple values can be specified for each filter.  Valid filter names for -r lpar lpar_ids ID of the partitions to view lpar_names Name of the partitions to view -F  AttributeNames A delimiter separated list of attribute names for the desired attribute values to be displayed for each resource. If no attribute names are specified, then values for all of the attributes for the resource will be displayed.   When this option is specified, only attribute values will be displayed. No attribute names will be displayed. The attribute values displayed will be separated by the delimiter which was specified with this option.    This option is useful when only attribute values are desired to be displayed, or when the values of only selected attributes are desired to be displayed.  Attribute Names:  borrowed_pool_proc_units  Processing units that are being borrowed from powered off partitions with dedicated processors. capped_cycles  The number of capped processing cycles utilized by this partition since the system started.   configurable_pool_proc_units  The number of configurable processing units in the shared pool at the time of the sample configurable_sys_mem  The amount of configurable system memory (in megabytes) at the time of the sample.   configurable_sys_proc_units  The number of configurable system processing units at the time of the sample. curr_5250_cpw_percent  The 5250 CPW percent assigned to the partition at the time of the sample. curr_avail_5250_cpw_percent  The 5250 CPW percent available to be assigned to partitions at the time of the sample.   curr_avail_pool_proc_units  The number of processing units available to be assigned to partitions at the time of the sample. curr_avail_sys_mem  The amount of memory (in megabytes) available to be assigned to partitions at the time of the sample. curr_avail_sys_proc_units  The number of processing units available to be assigned to partitions at the time of the sample.   curr_io_entitled_mem The size of memory that the logical partition is entitled to map to I/O (in megabytes). curr_mem  The amount of memory (in megabytes) assigned to the partition at the time of the sample. curr_pool_mem The total amount of physical memory (in megabytes) in the memory pool.   curr_proc_mode The processing mode for the partition at the time of the sample. Valid values ded: dedicated processor mode  shared: shared processor mode curr_proc_units curr_proc_units Current number of processing units assigned to the partition. This attribute is only valid for partitions using shared processors. curr_procs  The number of processors or virtual processors assigned to the partition at the time of the sample.   curr_sharing_mode The sharing mode of the partition at the time of the sample. Valid values: keep_idle_procs: valid with dedicated processor mode  share_idle_procs: valid with dedicated processor mode  cap: capped mode. valid with shared processor mode  uncap: uncapped mode. valid with shared processor mode curr_uncap_weight The current weighted average of processing priority when in uncapped sharing mode at the time of the sample.  The smaller the value, the lower the weight. Valid values are 0-255 donated_cycles The number of cycles donated by a partition with dedicated processors.   entitled_cycles  The number of processing cycles to which the partition has been entitled since the system started.  This value is based on the number of processing units assigned to the partition, and might be greater than, or smaller than the number of cycles actually used. event_type  The type of event. This will be displayed with a constant value of sample for all samples except the config resource type. idle_cycles The number of cycles that the logical partition reported as idle.  If the partition does not have the ability to report idle cycles, this value is 0.   lpar_curr_io_entitled_mem The total entitlement (in megabytes) of all shared memory partitions served by the memory pool. lpar_id  The unique integer identifier for the partition. lpar_mapped_io_entitled_mem The total I/O mapped memory (in megabytes) of all active partitions served by the memory pool.   lpar_run_mem The total logical real memory in megabytes of all active partitions served by the memory pool. mapped_io_entitled_mem Size of memory (in megabytes) that the logical partition has mapped to I/O memory. mem_mode The partition memory mode. Valid values: ded - dedicated memory shared - shared memory If the memory mode is shared, then the logical partition cannot be assigned any physical I/O slots, the proc_mode attribute on the partition must be shared, and a memory pool must exist.   The Virtual I/O Server logical partition only supports the dedicated memory mode.   page_faults The total-page fault count of the memory pool since the initialization of the pool, or since the last reboot of the hypervisor, whichever is more recent. page_in_delay The total page in delay (in microseconds) spent waiting for the page faults since the initialization of the memory pool, or since the last reboot of the hypervisor, whichever is more recent. phys_run_mem The size of physical memory (in megabytes) that is backing the logical address space of the logical partition.  This value represents the portion of the logical memory assignment that is currently paged in the logical partition.   proc_cycles_per_second The processing cycles per second on one physical processor.  This value is static for a particular managed system. resource_type The resource type queried. Valid values are sys, pool, and lpar, depending on which value is supplied for the -r flag. run_latch_cycles The number of nonidle cycles used by the partition, while the run-latch is set, since the last time the system was started.    run_latch_instructions The number of nonidle instructions performed by the partition, while the run-latch is set, since the last time the system was started.  run_mem_weight Shared memory weight at run time. sample_rate The rate at which samples are obtained.  This can be changed with the chlparutil command. Valid values: 0: Samples will not be retrieved.  30: Samples will be retrieved every 30 seconds. This is the default value. 60: Samples will be retrieved every minute.   300: Samples will be retrieved every 5 minutes.   1800: Samples will be retrieved every 30 minutes.   3600: Samples will be retrieved every hour.    shared_proc_pool_id  The unique decimal identifier for a shared processing pool. state The state of the managed system at the time of the sample. sys_firmware_mem The amount of memory, in megabytes, on the managed system that is being used by system firmware at the time of the sample.   sys_firmware_pool_mem The amount of memory in the shared memory pool that is reserved for use by the firmware. This is the greater of the current and pending values. sys_time  The time on the managed system that the sample was taken.  The time and sys_time attributes will have the same value. time  The time on the management partition that this sample was taken.  The time and sys_time attributes will have the same value.   time_bin The time or sys_time represented as the number of milliseconds since January 1, 1970. time_cycles  The number of time cycles since the system was started. total_pool_cycles  The total number of processing cycles available in the shared pool since the system was started.   uncapped_cycles  The number of uncapped processing cycles utilized by this partition since the system was started. uptime  The amount of time (in seconds) that the partition has been running at the time of the sample. utilized_pool_cycles  The number of processing cycles in the shared pool that have been utilized since the system was started. --header Display a header record, which is a delimiter separated list of attribute names for the attribute values that will be displayed. This header record will be the first record displayed. This option is only valid when used with the -F option.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is accessible by all users.   Examples To list the last five shared processing pool utilization metrics, type:  lslparutil -r pool -n 5 To calculate the shared processing pool utilization in percent over a five-minute time period, type: lslparutil -r pool --startyear 2006 --startmonth 10 --startday 4  --starthour 15 --startminute 23 --endyear 2006 --endmonth 10  --endday 4 --endhour 15 --endminute 28  -F time,total_pool_cycles,utilized_pool_cycles  10/04/2006 15:27:56,449504263518104,372389272879 10/04/2006 15:27:26,449442382657200,372195239995 10/04/2006 15:26:56,449382561908822,371998920942 10/04/2006 15:26:26,449320667371346,371797239591 10/04/2006 15:25:56,449258781703684,371592366752 10/04/2006 15:25:26,449196894951060,371394157970 10/04/2006 15:24:56,449135006535822,371192089089 10/04/2006 15:24:27,449075176369863,369243635687 10/04/2006 15:23:56,449013298087726,369040980263 10/04/2006 15:23:26,448951445376558,368850062933  Pool utilization = (utilized_pool_cycle / total_pool_cycles) * 100 Pool utilization = ((372389272879 - 368850062933) /                     (449504263518104 - 448951445376558)) * 100 Pool utilization = 0.64% To calculate the shared processing pool size over a five-minute time period, type:  lslparutil -r pool --startyear 2006 --startmonth 10 --startday 4  --starthour 15 --startminute 23 --endyear 2006 --endmonth 10  --endday 4 --endhour 15 --endminute 28 -F time,time_cycles,total_pool_cycles  10/04/2006 15:27:56,112376065883848,449504263518104 10/04/2006 15:27:26,112360595668767,449442382657200 10/04/2006 15:26:56,112345640481652,449382561908822 10/04/2006 15:26:26,112330166847247,449320667371346 10/04/2006 15:25:56,112314695430447,449258781703684 10/04/2006 15:25:26,112299223741951,449196894951060 10/04/2006 15:24:56,112283751639775,449135006535822 10/04/2006 15:24:27,112268794096846,449075176369863 10/04/2006 15:23:56,112253324526335,449013298087726 10/04/2006 15:23:26,112237861348574,448951445376558  Pool size = total_pool_cycles / time_cycles Pool size = (449504263518104 - 448951445376558) /              (112376065883848 - 112237861348574) Pool size = 4 To calculate the processing utilization in percent for partition 1 over the last 11 samples, type: lslparutil -r lpar -F time,lpar_id,entitled_cycles,capped_cycles,uncapped_cycles  --filter lpar_ids=1 -n 11  06/26/2005 12:13:04,1,13487973395246,353524992184,93964052971 06/26/2005 12:12:33,1,13486720703117,353490258336,93964052971 06/26/2005 12:12:03,1,13485467110700,353456792591,93964052971 06/26/2005 12:11:33,1,13484213859686,353423048854,93964052971 06/26/2005 12:11:03,1,13482961098044,353386674795,93964052971 06/26/2005 12:10:32,1,13481706673802,353350985013,93964052971 06/26/2005 12:10:02,1,13480453156357,353317211748,93964052971 06/26/2005 12:09:32,1,13479199972343,353283141535,93964052971 06/26/2005 12:09:02,1,13477946765207,353248812551,93964052971 06/26/2005 12:08:31,1,13476693184663,353213970760,93964052971 06/26/2005 12:08:01,1,13475439617080,353179654833,93964052971  Processor utilization = ((capped_cycles + uncapped_cycles)                          / entitled_cycles) * 100 Processor utilization = (((353524992184 - 353179654833)                          + (93964052971 - 93964052971))                          / (13487973395246 - 13475439617080)) * 100 Processor utilization = 2.76% To calculate the most recent number of utilized processor units for partition 1, type:  lslparutil -r lpar -F time,time_cycles,capped_cycles,uncapped_cycles -n 2 \ --filter lpar_ids=1  10/06/2006 09:42:58,190122585897822,836322334068,1209599213218 10/06/2006 09:42:28,190107628555119,836215824328,1209507899652  Processor units used = (capped_cycles + uncapped_cycles) / time_cycles Processor units used = ((836322334068 - 836215824328)                         + (1209599213218 - 1209507899652)) /                        (190122585897822 - 190107628555119) Processor units used = 0.01 To display 5 entries spread over the last day, type:  lslparutil -r lpar --startyear 2005 --startmonth 6 --startday 25 \ --starthour 14 --startminute 20 --endyear 2005 --endmonth 6 \ --endday 26 --endhour 14 --endminute 20 -F time,lpar_id,entitled_cycles,\ capped_cycles,uncapped_cycles -n 5 --spread  06/26/2005 14:20:03,1,64074629124428,2634420796918,3335839807455 06/26/2005 08:20:03,1,63180190141506,2597103712238,3292339240560 06/26/2005 02:20:02,1,62285686629911,2559847748332,3249081303922 06/25/2005 20:20:01,1,61391161857754,2522594738730,3205850397796 06/25/2005 14:20:01,1,60496719757782,2485459490629,3162821474641   This data is particularly useful for graphing utilization data.  To view the number of donated cycles: lslparutil -r lpar -F donated_cycles   Related Information The  and  commands.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lsmemdev command Purpose Lists block storage devices on the Virtual I/O Server that are capable of being added to a shared memory pool for use as paging space devices. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax lsmemdev -r avail [-m ManagedSystem ]  [-p <VIOS LPAR name> | --id <VIOS LPAR ID>] [--min <minimum size in MB>] [--max <maximum size in MB> [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [--header] [--help]   Description The lsmemdev command lists block storage devices on the Virtual I/O Server that are capable of being added to a shared memory pool for use as paging space devices. Only devices in the available state are displayed.   Flags Flag name Description -r ResourceType The type of resources to list:   avail: available resources   -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because only one system is managed. The name can either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. --filter FilterData The filters to apply to the resources to be listed. Filters are used to select which resources of  the specified resource type are to be listed. If no filters are used, all of the resources of the specified resource type are listed. For example, specific logical partitions can be listed by using a filter to specify the names or IDs of the logical partitions to list. Otherwise, if no filter is used, all the logical partitions in the managed system are listed. The filter data consists of filter name/value pairs, which are in comma-separated value (CSV) format. The filter data must be enclosed in quotation marks.  The format of the filter data is as follows:  "filter-name=value,filter-name=value,..."  Note that certain filters accept a comma-separated list of values, as follows: ""filter-name=value,value,...",..."   When a list of values is specified, the filter name/value pair must be enclosed in quotation marks. Depending on the shell being used, nested quotation marks might need to be preceded by an escape character, which is usually a backslash (\)  character.  Unless otherwise indicated, multiple values can be specified for each filter.  Valid filter names: types | storage_pools | redundant  -F AttributeNames A delimiter separated list of attribute names for the desired attribute values to be displayed for each resource. If no attribute names are specified, values for all of the attributes for the resource are displayed. When this option is specified, only attribute values are displayed. No attribute names are displayed. The attribute values displayed are separated by the delimiter which was specified with this option.  This option is useful when only attribute values are desired to be displayed, or when the values of only selected attributes are desired to be displayed.  Attribute names for partitions: device_name The Virtual I/O Server name of a block storage device. phys_loc If the device has a physical location code, this attribute is displayed by default with the physical location code as the value.  If the device does not have a physical location code, this attribute is not displayed by default and has a blank value. redundant_capable This attribute is not displayed by default, but if requested has a value of 0. size Size of the block storage device in megabytes.  storage_pool If the device comes from a storage pool, this attribute is displayed by default with the storage pool as the value.  If the device does not come from a storage pool, this attribute is not displayed by default and has a blank value. type Type of the underlying device. Valid values follow: logical phys storage_pool --header Displays a header record, which is a delimiter-separated list of attribute names for the attribute values that are displayed. This header record is the first record displayed. This option is only valid when used with the -F option.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is accessible by all users.   Examples To list the storage devices that are capable of being added to a memory pool, type: lsmemdev -r avail   Related Information The  and  commands.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lsrefcode command Purpose Lists reference codes for partitions or the managed system. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To list reference codes for the managed system:   lsrefcode -r sys [ -n Number ] [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list reference codes for partitions:   lsrefcode -r lpar [ -n Number ] [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    Description The lsrefcode command lists reference codes for partitions or the managed system.   Flags Flag name Description -r ResourceType The type of resources to list: -r sys: List reference codes for the managed system. Attributes:  refcode_num, time_stamp, refcode, word2, word3, word4, word5, word6, word7, word8, word9, fru_call_out_loc_codes  Filters: None -r lpar: List reference codes for partitions. Attributes:  lpar_name, lpar_id, time_stamp, refcode, word2, word3, word4, word5, word6, word7, word8, word9, fru_call_out_loc_codes  Filters: { lpar_ids | lpar_names} -n Number The number of reference codes to list.  The default is to list one.  Reference codes are listed in order, with the most recent reference code first. -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name might either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. --filter FilterData The filters to apply to the resources to be listed. Filters are used to select which resources of  the specified resource type are to be listed. If no filters are used, then all of the resources of the specified resource type will be listed. For example, specific partitions can be listed by using a filter to specify the names or IDs of the partitions to list. Otherwise, if no filter is used, then all the partitions in the managed system will be listed. The filter data consists of filter name/value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format. The filter data must be enclosed in double quotation marks.  The format of the filter data is as follows:  "filter-name=value,filter-name=value,..."  Certain filters accept a comma separated list of values, as follows: ""filter-name=value,value,...",..."  When a list of values is specified, the filter name/value pair must be enclosed in double quotation marks. Depending on the shell being used, nested double quotation marks might need to be preceded by an escape character, which is usually a '\'  character.  Unless otherwise indicated, multiple values can be specified for each filter.  Valid filter names for -r lpar:  lpar_ids ID of the partition to view lpar_names Name of the partitions to view -F AttributeNames A delimiter separated list of attribute names for the desired attribute values to be displayed for each resource. If no attribute names are specified, then values for all of the attributes for the resource will be displayed. When this option is specified, only attribute values will be displayed. No attribute names will be displayed. The attribute values displayed will be separated by the delimiter which was specified with this option.  This option is useful when only attribute values are desired to be displayed, or when the values of only selected attributes are desired to be displayed.  Attribute Names: fru_call_out_loc_codes Location codes of the field replaceable unit related to the reference code lpar_id Unique integer identifier for the partition lpar_name Name of the partition refcode The ASCII reference code string refcode_num The sequence number of the reference code. time_stamp The time that the reference code was created in the format: MM/DD/YYYY HH:MM:SS where MM is the two digit month, DD is the two digit day, YYYY is the four digit year, HH is the two digit hour, MM is the two digit minute, and SS is the two digit second. fru_call_out_loc_codes The Field Replaceable Unit (FRU) numbers for the FRUs whose absence or failure caused this reference code to be received.  This field might be used for other values. --header Display a header record, which is a delimiter separated list of attribute names for the attribute values that will be displayed. This header record will be the first record displayed. This option is only valid when used with the -F option.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is accessible by all users.   Examples To list the current reference code for the managed system, type:        lsrefcode -r sys      To list the current reference code for all partitions, type:        lsrefcode -r lpar      To list the last 25 reference codes for partitions p1 and p2, only viewing the lpar_id and refcode attributes, type:        lsrefcode -r lpar -n 25 --filter \"lpar_names=p1,p2\" -F lpar_id,refcode   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lssvcevents command PurposeList attributes of console or serviceable events. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To list console events:  lssvcevents -t console  [ -d NumberDays | -i NumberMinutes ] [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list serviceable events:  lssvcevents -t hardware  [ -d NumberDays | -i NumberMinutes ] [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list field replaceable units (frus) for a specific serviceable events    lssvcevents -t fru  --filter "FilterData" [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list comments for a specific serviceable event    lssvcevents -t comment --filter "FilterData" [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list service objects associated with a specific serviceable event    lssvcevents -t service_object -filter "FilterData" [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]  To list the status of dynamic LPAR events:  lssvcevents -t dlpar [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The lssvcevents command lists attributes of console or serviceable events.   Flags Flag name Description -t EventType The type of event to list: console     Console events - events created by the applications       Attributes:  time, userid, pid, name, category, severity, time_bin, text    Filters: severities, categories, name    hardware Serviceable events      Attributes:  problem_num, pmh_num, refcode, status, first_time, last_time, sys_name, reporting_name, sys_mtms, reporting_mtms, enclosure_mtms, failing_mtms, text, firmware_fix, created_time, analyzing_sfp, refcode_extension, firmware_pkg_name, firmware_pkg_status, reporting_sfp_name, reporting_sfp_mtms, failing_sfp_mtms, severity, lpar_id, lpar_name, lpar_hostname, lpar_os_type, notification_type, notification_status, duplicate_count, analyzing_sfp_mtms, analyzing_sfp_name, called_home_sys_mtms, sys_log_id, platform_log_id, subsystem_id, creator_id, ipl_state, symptom, failing_lpar_id, failing_lpar_name, failing_lpar_os_type, fru_part_nums, fru_phys_locs, first_time_bin, last_time_bin, created_time_bin    Filters: status, problem_nums, refcodes, fru_part_nums, fru_phys_locs, reporting_mtms, failing_mtm    fru     Field replaceable units (frus) for a serviceable event.      Attributes:  part_num, class, description, phys_loc, prev_replaced, replaced_time, serial_num, replacement_grp, ccin, logic_ctl_mtms, power_ctl_mtms, replaced_time_bin     Filters: problem_nums (required)    comment     Comments for a serviceable event.      Attributes: time,commenter,text      Filters: problem_nums (required), status    service_object Service objects for a serviceable event.  These are not accessible to users without the DEUser or SRUser roles.      Attributes: key, sys_log_id, notification_type, platform_log_id, severity, creator_id, refcode, subsystem_id, lpar_os_type, failing_mtms, text, lpar_id, lpar_name, lpar_hostname, first_time, last_time, duplicate_count, eed_ptr, first_time_bin, last_time_bin     Filters: problem_nums (required), status    dlpar  Status of dynamic LPAR events - events used to synchronize resources that can be dynamically configured while the partition is active. These can be used to determine why the runtime and pending values of a resource are not synchronized. Typically, the last two status records are stored per partition per resource type. Attributes: lpar_id, resource_type, sequence_num, status_code, time, internal_rc, drmgr_cmd, drmgr_rc, drmgr_stdout, drmgr_stderr Filters: lpar_ids, resource_types -d NumberDays The number of previous days for which to view events.  This might not be used with the -i flag, and is only applicable to -t console, and -t hardware. If this flag and the -i flag are omitted, the default is 7 days. -i NumberMinutes The number of minutes for which to view events.  This might not be used with the -d flag, and is only applicable to -t console, and -t hardware. -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name might either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. --filter FilterData The filters to apply to the resources to be listed. Filters are used to select which resources of  the specified resource type are to be listed. If no filters are used, then all of the resources of the specified resource type will be listed. For example, specific partitions can be listed by using a filter to specify the names or IDs of the partitions to list. Otherwise, if no filter is used, then all the partitions in the managed system will be listed. The filter data consists of filter name/value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format. The filter data must be enclosed in double quotation marks.  The format of the filter data is as follows: "filter-name=value,filter-name=value,..."  Note that certain filters accept a comma separated list of values, as follows: ""filter-name=value,value,...",..."  When a list of values is specified, the filter name/value pair must be enclosed in double quotation marks. Depending on the shell being used, nested double quotation marks might need to be preceded by an escape character, which is usually a '\'  character.  Unless otherwise indicated, multiple values can be specified for each filter.  Valid filter names for -t console:  severities, categories, name  Valid filter names for -t hardware:  status, problem_nums, refcodes, fru_part_nums, fru_phys_locs, reporting_mtms, failing_mtms  Valid filter names for -t fru:  problem_nums (required)  Valid filter names for -t comments and -t service_objects:  problem_nums (required), status  Valid filter names for -t dlpar:  lpar_ids, resource_types -F AttributeNames A delimiter separated list of attribute names for the desired attribute values to be displayed for each resource. If no attribute names are specified, then values for all of the attributes for the resource will be displayed. When this option is specified, only attribute values will be displayed. No attribute names will be displayed. The attribute values displayed will be separated by the delimiter which was specified with this option.  This option is useful when only attribute values are desired to be displayed, or when the values of only selected attributes are desired to be displayed.  Attribute names:    analyzing_sfp  Name or MTMS of the service focal point system analyzing the event.    analyzing_sfp_mtms  MTMS of the service focal point system analyzing the event.    analyzing_sfp_name  Name of the service focal point system analyzing the event.    called_home_sys_mtms  MTMS of the system to which the event was called home.    category  Category or client type of the console event. Valid values: GUI: Web interface  CLI: Command line interface  AP: Access process     ccin  CCIN of the FRU    class  Class or type of the FRU    commenter  Name of the person adding a comment to the event    created_time  Time the event was created.    creator_id  The ID of the entity that created the event. Valid values: C:  E: Service processor  H:  W: Power  L: Partition firmware  S: Licensed Internal Code for IBM® i     description  Description of the FRU    drmgr_cmd  The command used for a dynamic LPAR event. The drmgr command is run on the client partition's operating system to synchronize a particular resource.    drmgr_rc  The return code for the command used for a dynamic LPAR event. The drmgr command is run on the client partition's operating system to synchronize a particular resource.    drmgr_stdout  The standard output for the command used for a dynamic LPAR event. The drmgr command is run on the client partition's operating system to synchronize a particular resource.    drmgr_stderr  The standard error for the command used for a dynamic LPAR event. The drmgr command is run on the client partition's operating system to synchronize a particular resource.    duplicate_count  Number of duplicates for this event.    enclosure_mtms  Enclosure MTMS    failing_lpar_id  Unique ID for the failing partition    failing_lpar_name  Name of the failing partition    failing_lpar_os_type  Operating system type of the failing partition    failing_mtms  MTMS of the failing system    failing_sfp_mtms  MTMS of the failing systems service focal point    firmware_fix  Indicates whether a firmware fix is available for the event    firmware_pkg_name  Package name of a possible firmware fix    firmware_pkg_status  Package status of a possible firmware fix    first_time  First time this event was reported    fru_part_nums  Part numbers of the FRUs    fru_phys_locs  Unique physical location codes of the FRUs    internal_rc  The return code for a dynamic LPAR event. This will be non zero only if the dynamic LPAR command was unexpectedly not able to be sent to the client partition.    ipl_state  State of the system when this event occurred    key  Unique ID for a service object for a particular serviceable event.    last_time  Last time this event was reported    logic_ctl_mtms  MTMS of the unit that logically controls the unit that the FRU is located in    lpar_hostname  Hostname of the partition that created this event    lpar_id  ID of the partition that created this event    lpar_name  Name of the partition that created this event    lpar_os_type  Operating system type of the partition that created this event    name  Name of the application that created the console event    notification_status  The status of the notification type    notification_type  The notification type for the event. Valid values: Yes: Call home  No: Customer notify     part_num  Part number of the FRU    phys_loc  Unique physical location code of the FRU    pid  Process ID of the process generating the console event    platform_log_id  Unique ID of the platform log for this event    pmh_num  PMH or tracking number    power_ctl_mtms MTMS of the unit that power controls the unit that the FRU is located in    prev_replaced  Indicates if the FRU has been previously replaced    problem_num  A unique ID for the event    refcode  Reference code for the event    refcode_extension  Extended reference code for the event    replaced_time  Time the FRU was replaced    replacement_grp  Replacement priority and grouping for the FRU. Valid values: H: Multiple high priority FRUs should be acted on as a group  M: Medium priority FRUs should be acted on, one at a time, in the order given.  A: Medium priority group A FRUs should be acted on as a group.  B: Medium priority group B FRUs should be acted on as a group.  C: Medium priority group C FRUs should be acted on as a group.  L: Low priority FRUs should be acted on only after all other priority call-outs failed to resolve the problem.     reporting_mtms  MTMS of the reporting unit    reporting_name  Name of the reporting unit    reporting_sfp_mtms  MTMS of the service focal point reporting the event    reporting_sfp_name  Name of the service focal point reporting the event    resource_type  The resource type for the dynamic LPAR event. These are all the resources that can be dynamically reconfigured. Valid values: mem proc proc_units uncap_weight memory io_entitled_mem mem_weight           sequence_num  The sequence number for this dynamic LPAR event. Each resource type might have more than one entry. The sequence number distinguishes the entries, and increments over time.    serial_num  Serial number of the FRU    severity  Severity of the event. Valid values: 10: Recovered error, general (10)  20: Predictive error, general (20)  21: Predictive error, degraded performance (21)  22: Predictive fault might be corrected after platform re-IPL (22)  23: Predictive error, fault might be corrected after IPL, degraded performance (23)  24: Predictive error, loss of redundancy (24)  40: Unrecovered error, general (40)  41: Unrecovered error, bypassed with degraded performance (41).  44: Unrecovered error, bypassed with loss of redundancy (44)  45: Unrecovered error, bypassed with loss of redundancy and performance (45)  48: Unrecovered error, bypassed with loss of function (48)  60: Error on diagnostic test, general (60)  61: Error on diagnostic test, resource might produce incorrect result (61)     status  Status of the event. Valid values:   Open: Event is in the open state  Closed: Event has been closed    status_code  Status code for the event. Valid values for dynamic LPAR events: 0: Synchronization successful 1: Synchronization in progress 2: Resource will not synchronize because the partition is a workload group participant 3: Resource will not synchronize because the partition communication state is not active 4: Resource will not synchronize because the partition does not support dynamic LPAR of this resource type 5: Resource will not synchronize because the partition is not in the Running state 6: Resource will not synchronize because the partition is unable to remove any more memory dynamically 7: Resource will not synchronize because the synchronization command failed to run for an unknown reason 8: Resource is not synchronized because the RMC command failed. The system will retry. If the partition is in the Running state with an active network connection, check the return code and contact your support representative. 9: Resource is not synchronized because the drmgr command on the partition failed. The system will retry. Check the return code, and the command output. 10: Resource will not synchronize because the requested assigned value is less than the current minimum. Restart your partition in order to complete the synchronization. 11: Resource will not synchronize because the requested assigned value is greater than the current maximum. Restart your partition in order to complete the synchronization. 12: Resource will not synchronize because the pending and current processing modes do not match. Restart your partition in order to complete the synchronization. 13: Resource will not synchronize because IVM is unable to determine dynamic LPAR capabilities of the logical partition. 255: Resource synchronization has not yet been attempted. It might take a few seconds depending on your system utilization before synchronization is attempted.           subsystem_id  The subsystem causing the event. Valid values include: 10 - 1F: Processor subsystem including internal cache  20 - 2F: Memory subsystem including external cache  30 - 3F: I/O subsystem (hub, bridge, bus)   40 - 4F: I/O adapter, device and peripheral  50 - 5F: CEC hardware  60 - 6F: Power/Cooling subsystem  70 - 79: Other subsystem  7A - 7F: Surveillance error  80 - 8F: Platform firmware  90 - 9F: Software  A0 - AF: External environment     symptom  Symptom of the event    sys_log_id  Unique ID of the system log for the event    sys_mtms  MTMS of the system    text  Text of the event    time  Time of the console or dynamic LPAR event    time_bin  Time in milliseconds since Jan 1, 1970    userid  User ID of the user that ran the command that caused the console event --header Display a header record, which is a delimiter separated list of attribute names for the attribute values that will be displayed. This header record will be the first record displayed. This option is only valid when used with the -F option.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is accessible by all users, except for certain types and attributes as noted, which require SR User or DE User roles.   Examples To list the serviceable events that occurred today, type:        lssvcevents -t hardware -d 0      To list the console events that occurred within  the past 3 days, type:        lssvcevents -t console -d 3      To list  all of the open serviceable events for the system, type:        lssvcevents -t hardware --filter "status=open"      To list the associated FRUs for a specific serviceable event, type:        lssvcevents -t fru  --filter problem_nums=6013EFFF-205E9F22-4CC931E5-F892358-A0F6C1D6   Related Information The  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lssyscfg command Purpose List attributes of partitions, partition profiles, or the managed system. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To list partition attributes:  lssyscfg -r lpar  [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list partition profile attributes:  lssyscfg -r prof  [ --filter "FilterData" ] [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    To list system attributes:  lssyscfg -r sys [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]    Description The lssyscfg command lists attributes of partitions, partition profiles, or the managed system.   Flags Flag name Description -r ResourceType The type of resources to list:  lpar: Logical partition resources   prof: Logical partition profile resources  sys: Managed system resources  -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. --filter FilterData The filters to apply to the resources to be listed. Filters are used to select which resources of  the specified resource type are to be listed. If no filters are used, then all of the resources of the specified resource type will be listed. For example, specific partitions can be listed by using a filter to specify the names or IDs of the partitions to list. Otherwise, if no filter is used, then all the partitions in the managed system will be listed. The filter data consists of filter name/value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format. The filter data must be enclosed in double quotes.  The format of the filter data is as follows:  "filter-name=value,filter-name=value,..."  Note that certain filters accept a comma separated list of values, as follows: ""filter-name=value,value,...",..."   When a list of values is specified, the filter name/value pair must be enclosed in double quotes. Depending on the shell being used, nested double quote characters may need to be preceded by an escape character, which is usually a '\'  character.  Unless otherwise indicated, multiple values can be specified for each filter.  Valid filter names for partitions: lpar_names | lpar_ids - name or ID of the partitions to view work_groups - work groups to which the partitions belong   Valid filter names for partition profiles: lpar_names | lpar_ids:  name or ID of the partition profiles profile_names:  profile names for the partitions    This option is not valid when listing managed systems. -F AttributeNames A delimiter separated list of attribute names for the desired attribute values to be displayed for each resource. If no attribute names are specified, then values for all of the attributes for the resource will be displayed. When this option is specified, only attribute values will be displayed. No attribute names will be displayed. The attribute values displayed will be separated by the delimiter which was specified with this option.  This option is useful when only attribute values are desired to be displayed, or when the values of only selected attributes are desired to be displayed.  Attribute names for partitions: allow_perf_collection Permission for the partition to retrieve shared processor pool utilization information Valid values are:  0: do not allow authority  1: allow authority auto_start Valid values are:  0 - do not automatically start with system power on  1 - automatically start with system power on   boot_mode Partition power on mode. Valid values are:  norm: normal  dd: diagnostic with default boot list  ds: diagnostic with stored boot list  of: Open Firmware OK prompt  sms: System Management Services null: not applicable curr_lpar_proc_compat_mode Displays the current negotiated compatibility mode.  This is the mode that the partition operating system has negotiated, and will be less than or equal to the desired mode at logical partition boot time.   It is possible that the mode will be greater than the desired mode, if the partition is powered off.  The current value only changes when the logical partition restarts. curr_profile The current profile is always equal to the partition name   default_profile The default profile is always equal to the partition name desired_lpar_proc_compat_mode Displays the requested compatibility mode. dlpar_mem_capable Indicates if the partition supports dynamic LPAR of memory. Valid values: 0 - no 1 - yes   dlpar_proc_capable Indicates if the partition supports dynamic LPAR of processing resources. Valid values: 0 - no 1 - yes ipl_source The IPL source for the  logical partition. This attribute is optional. Valid values:  a b c d logical_serial_num A globally unique string for this partition   lpar_env The operating environment for this partition Valid values:  aixlinux: a partition type that supports . os400: an  partition vioserver: a  partition lpar_id unique integer identifier for the partition lpar_keylock Partition keylock position. Valid values:  norm: normal keylock  manual: manual keylock   mem_synchronized The current and pending memory values for this partition are synchronized. name Name of the partition os_version The version of the operating system running that is in the logical partition.   power_ctrl_lpar_ids A list of partitions which have power control over this partition. Valid values:  none: No partitions proc_synchronized The current and pending processing values for this partition are synchronized. resource_config Valid values:  0 - resources are not available to power on with system  1 - resources are available to power on with system   rmc_ipaddr The IP address of the client partition. This IP address is used by RMC to connect to the client partition for dynamic LPAR. rmc_state The state of the RMC connection between the management partition and the client partition. The RMC connection is used primarily for dynamic LPAR. Valid values: inactive active unknown none - RMC not configured. This partition has never been registered with RMC. rmc_osshutdown_capable Indicates if the partition supports shutdown via the RMC connection. This allows the management partition to safely shutdown the client partition via chsysstate -o osshutdown Valid values follow: 0 - no 1 - yes   state The current runtime state of the partition. Valid values follow:  Not Activated  Starting  Running  Shutting Down  Error  Open Firmware  Not Available uptime Partition uptime in seconds. work_group_id Valid values follow:  none: do not participate in the workload management group  1: participate in the workload management group   Attribute names for partition profiles: all_resources Valid values:  0: This partition will not own all physical resources on the system alt_console_slot The location of the physical I/O slot that contains the alternate console device for the  logical partition. The default value is none.    alt_restart_device_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the alternate restart device for the  logical partition. If the load source slot is a value other than none, then this attribute is optional. Valid values are:  Slot number (for virtual I/O) none auto_start Valid values: 0 - do not automatically start with system power on  1 - automatically start with system power on boot_mode Partition power on mode. Valid values are:  norm - normal  dd - diagnostic with default boot list  ds - diagnostic with stored boot list  of - Open Firmware OK prompt  sms - System Management Services   conn_monitoring Valid values:  0 - connection monitoring is disabled  1 - connection monitoring is enabled console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the console device for the  logical partition. Valid values are:  Slot number (for virtual I/O) none desired_io_entitled_mem The amount of I/O entitled memory for a shared memory partition.  This is the portion of memory that is reserved for I/O mappings. auto (automatically manage) Number of megabytes If the value is auto, the entitlement is calculated based on the virtual I/O configuration of the partition. If the virtual I/O configuration is changed, the entitlement is updated automatically.  If auto is not used, no automatic adjustments are made.  The default value is auto.   desired_mem The assigned megabytes of memory for this partition. desired_procs The assigned number of processors for this partition.  In shared processing mode, this refers to virtual processors. desired_proc_units The assigned number of processing units for this partition.   hsl_pool_id Whether the logical partition participates in the high-speed link (HSL) pool. The default value is 0 (does not participate). io_slots Comma separated list of I/O slots for the partition.  Each item in this list has the format: drc_index/slot_io_pool_id/is_required  Valid values for is_required:  0 - no  1 - yes lhea_logical_ports Comma-separated list of logical  (LHEA) logical ports, with each logical port having the following format:  adapter-ID/port-group/physical-port-ID /logical-port-ID/allowed-VLAN-IDs    lhea_capabilities Comma-separated list of LHEA capabilities, with each capability having one of the following formats: adapter-ID/capability  adapter-ID/5/ieq/nieq/qp/cq/mr The values for ieq (interruptible event queues), nieq (non-interruptible event queues), qp (queue pairs), cq (completion queues), and mr (memory regions) specify the resource amount in addition to the base minimum. Valid values are: 0 - minimum 1 - low 2 - medium 3 - high 4 - dedicated 5 - custom load_source_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the load source for the  logical partition. If the alt_restart_device_slot has a value other than none, then this attribute is optional. Valid values are:  Slot number (for virtual I/O) none lpar_id Unique integer identifier for the partition.   lpar_io_pool_ids Valid values are:  none - this partition is not part of an I/O pool. lpar_name Name of the partition. lpar_proc_compat_mode The currently requested compatibility mode of the processor for the logical partition.    max_mem The maximum megabytes of memory for this partition. max_procs The maximum number of processors for this partition.  In shared processing mode, this refers to virtual processors. Valid values are:  keep_idle_procs - never share processors  share_idle_procs - share processors only when the partition is inactive  share_idle_procs_active - share processors only when partition is active  share_idle_procs_always - always share processors  cap - capped mode uncap - uncapped mode max_proc_units The maximum number of processing units for this partition.   max_virtual_slots Maximum number of virtual I/O adapter slots. mem_mode The partition memory mode.  ded - dedicated memory shared - shared memory If the memory mode is shared, then the logical partition cannot be assigned any physical I/O slots, the proc_mode attribute on the logical partition must be shared, and a memory pool must exist.   The Virtual I/O Server logical partition only supports the dedicated memory mode. mem_weight The shared memory weight of the logical partition with shared memory.  This flag is used for determining priority of logical partitions in a memory pool for distribution of memory.    min_mem The minimum megabytes of memory for this logical partition. min_procs The minimum number of processors for this logical partition.  In shared processing mode, this refers to virtual processors. min_proc_units The minimum number of processing units for this logical partition.   name Name of the profile. op_console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the directly-attached operations console device for the  logical partition. The default value is none. os_type The operating system environment for this logical partition. Valid values:  aixlinux: an RPA partition type which supports . os400: an  logical partition vioserver: a  partition   paging_device The paging space device to use if a memory pool is used.  A paging device is a block storage device that has been added to the memory pool and is not designated as a paging device for any other logical partition.  If the paging_device value is a blank string, no paging device is currently assigned. power_ctrl_lpar_ids A list of logical partitions which have power control over this logical partition. Valid values are:  none - No partitions power_ctrl_lpar_names A list of logical partitions which have power control over this logical partition. Valid values are: none - No partitions     primary_paging_vios_id The ID of the primary paging Virtual I/O Server (VIOS) partition that provides access to the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions. A paging VIOS partition is a VIOS logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool. primary_paging_vios_name The name of the primary paging VIOS partition that provides access to the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions. A paging VIOS partition is a VIOS logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool. proc_mode Valid values:  ded: dedicated processor mode  shared: shared processor mode secondary_paging_vios_id The ID of the secondary paging Virtual I/O Server (VIOS) partition that provides access to the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions. A paging VIOS partition is a VIOS logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool. secondary_paging_vios_name The name of the secondary paging VIOS partition that provides access to the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions. A paging VIOS partition is a VIOS logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool. sharing_mode Valid values: share_idle_procs proc_mode=ded share_idle_procs_active share_idle_procs_always proc_mode=shared cap uncap   uncap_weight A weighted average of processing priority when in uncapped sharing mode.  The smaller the value, the lower the weight. Valid values are: 0 - 255. virtual_eth_adapters Comma-separated list of virtual Ethernet adapters, with each adapter having the following format: slot_number/is_ieee/port_vlan_id/additional_vlan_ids/ is_trunk/is_required All 5 '/' characters must be present, but optional values may be omitted.  Optional values are additional-vlan-IDs, and is-trunk. Valid values for is_ieee, is_trunk, and is_required: 0 - no  1 - yes For example, 4/0/2//0/0 specifies a virtual Ethernet adapter with a virtual slot number of 4, is not IEEE 802.1Q enabled, has a port virtual LAN ID of 2, no additional virtual LAN IDs, it is not a trunk adapter, and is not required. A value of none indicates that there are no virtual Ethernet adapters.   virtual_fc_adapters Comma-separated list of virtual fibre channel adapters.  Each item in the list has the following format:  virtual slot num/adapter_type/remote_lpar_id/ remote_lpar_name/remote_slot_num/wwpn_list/is_required virtual_opti_pool_id The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the directly-attached operations console device for the  logical partition. The default value is 0 (does not participate). virtual_scsi_adapters Comma-separated list of virtual SCSI adapters. Each item in the list has the following format:  slot_num/adapter_type/remote_lpar_id/remote_lpar_name/ remote_slot_num/is_required   virtual_serial_adapters Comma-separated list of virtual serial adapters.  Each item in the list has the following format: slot_num/adapter_type/supports_hmc/remote_lpar_id/ remote_lpar_name/remote_slot_num/is_required The attribute names are not present in the list, just their values are present.  If an attribute is optional and is not to be included, then no value would be specified for that attribute. For example, 0/server/1/any//any/1 specifies a virtual server serial device that has a virtual slot number of 0, supports , supports any remote partition, supports any remote slot, and is required. A value of none indicates that there are no virtual serial adapters.  Valid values for adapter_type: client: client adapter  server: server adapter, valid for  partitions only  Valid values for supports_hmc:   0 - no  1 - yes    Valid values for is_required:   0 - no  1 - yes     Attribute names for the managed system: active_lpar_share_idle_procs_capable Indicates if the platform supports setting the share while active sharing_mode. Valid values: 0 - not capable 1 - capable active_mem_sharing_capable The capability of the managed system to use a shared memory pool.  Valid values follow:  0 - Not capable 1 - Capable     capabilities Displays a comma-separated list of capabilities.  cod_mem_capable Valid values: 0- not capable of memory   1 - capable of memory  cod_proc_capable Valid values: 0- not capable of processor   1 - capable of processor  config_version The version of the configuration data in platform firmware of the current logical partition .   curr_configured_max_lpars The current maximum number of logical partitions supported by the management logical partitionThis option is deprecated. Instead use: lshwres -r virtualio --rsubtype slot --level lpar  with attribute "curr_max_virtual_slots" value for partition 1 dlpar_mem_capable Valid values: 0: Changes do not take effect until the next reboot of the logical partition or platform.  1: Changes take effect immediately.   lhea_capable Indicates if the managed system has one or more s.   lpar_avail_priority The priority of the partition to maintain its entitled processors. If a processor failure occurs, processing resources will be removed first from the lowest priority partition.  The  partition must have a higher priority than any other partition on the system. lpar_avail_priority_capable Specifies if the platform supports the lpar_avail_priority attribute. Valid values: 0 - not capable 1 - capable lpar_comm_default Indicates if the lpar_comm_ipaddr is using the default IP address, or if the user has manually set this using chsyscfg. Valid values: 0: User has manually set the IP address 1: Default IP address is used. This is the first IP address configured on your system as reported by lstcpip -interfaces   lpar_comm_ipaddr The IP address through which client partitions will communicate with the management partition. This is used primarily for dynamic LPAR. It is defaulted to the first IP address configured on your system, but can be manually set if desired.  This attribute supports multiple IP addresses using a comma-separated list. lpar_proc_compat_mode_capable The supported compatibility modes of the processor for the logical partition. Valid values:  0: The managed system does not support setting the processor compatibility mode for a partition. 1: The managed system supports setting the processor compatibility mode for a partition. lpar_proc_compat_modes A comma separated list of compatibility modes that the managed system supports.   max_lpars Maximum number of partitions supported by firmware. max_power_ctrl_lpars Maximum number of power controlling partitions per controlled partition. max_vscsi_remote_lpar_id Indicates the largest partition ID of the remote partition with a virtual SCSI server adapter.  max_micro_lpar_id Indicates largest partition ID of a partition using the MicroPartition technology.    micro_lpar_capable Valid values: 0: not capable of creating shared processor partitions 1: capable of creating shared processor partitions mfg_default_config Specifies whether or not the system is in the manufacturing default partition configuration.Valid values:   0: No 1: Yes name Name for the managed system.   pend_configured_max_lpars The maximum number of partitions supported by the management partition after the next restart.This option is deprecated. Instead use: lshwres -r virtualio --rsubtype slot --level lpar with  attribute "pend_max_virtual_slots" value for partition 1. pend_lpar_config_state Valid values: enabled: The logical partition configuration data will be enabled during the next restart operation. disabled: The logical partition configuration data will be disabled during the next restart operation. cleared: The logical partition configuration data will be cleared to manufacturing defaults during the next restart operation. power_off_policy Valid values: 0- Power off the managed system after all partitions are powered off.   os400_capable Indicates that the platform supports  logical partitions. Valid values: 0: not capable of running  1: capable of running  serial_num Serial number for the managed system. service_lpar_id ID of the partition with platform service authority.   service_lpar_name Name of the partition with platform service authority. state Valid values: Operating - The managed system is running. sys_time The UTC time of system firmware in the format month/day/year hour:minute:second.   type_model Type and model for the managed system vet_activation_capable Whether the platform supports  system technologies activation.  Valid values:  0 - not capable 1 - capable virtual_fc_capable A value indicating whether the managed system supports a virtual fibre channel. Valid values follow:  0: The managed system does not support a virtual fibre channel. 1: The managed system supports a virtual fibre channel. --header Display a header record, which is a delimiter separated list of attribute names for the attribute values that will be displayed. This header record will be the first record displayed. This option is only valid when used with the -F option.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is accessible by all users.   Examples To list the attributes for the managed system, type:        lssyscfg -r sys      To list only the user-defined name, machine type and model, and serial number for the managed system, type:        lssyscfg -r sys -F name,type_model,serial_num      To list all partitions and only display attribute values for each partition following a header of attribute names, type:        lssyscfg -r lpar -F --header      To list the partitions named lpar1, lpar2, and lpar3, type:        lssyscfg -r lpar --filter \"lpar_names=lpar1,lpar2,lpar3\"      To list the partition profile for partition lpar2, type:        lssyscfg -r prof --filter lpar_names=lpar2 To view the desired compatibility mode in the profile, type: lyssyscfg -r prof -F lpar_proc_compat_mode   Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lssysconn command Purpose List connection information for systems. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To list the service processor network connection information:  lssysconn -r all [ -F "AttributeNames" ] [ --header ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The lssysconn command lists the service processor network connection information.   Flags Flag name Description -r ResourceType The type of resources to list:   all - Lists all connections Attributes: resource_type, type_model_serial_num, sp, side, ipaddr, alt_ipaddr, state, eth_loc_code, alt_eth_loc_code  Filters: None         -m ManagedSystem	 The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. -F AttributeNames A delimiter separated list of attribute names for the desired attribute values to be displayed for each resource. If no attribute names are specified, then values for all of the attributes for the resource will be displayed. When this option is specified, only attribute values will be displayed. No attribute names will be displayed. The attribute values displayed will be separated by the delimiter which was specified with this option.  This option is useful when only attribute values are desired to be displayed, or when the values of only selected attributes are desired to be displayed.  The following attributes are available:  resource_type Indicates the resource type. This attribute always reads 0. type_model_serial_num The type-model and serial number of the system in the form ttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. sp The type of service processor. This attribute always reads unavailable. side The current side of the service processor. This attribute always reads unavailable. ipaddr The IP Address of the first Ethernet device on the service processor. alt_ipaddr The IP Address of the second Ethernet device on the service processor. state The connection state to the service processor.  This attribute always reads No Connection. eth_loc_code The physical location code of the first Ethernet device on the service processor. alt_eth_loc_code The physical location code of the second Ethernet device on the service processor. --header Display a header record, which is a delimiter separated list of attribute names for the attribute values that will be displayed. This header record will be the first record displayed. This option is only valid when used with the -F option.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is accessible by all users.   Examples To list all system connections, type:  lssysconn -r all   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM lsvet command Purpose List  advanced functions activation information. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax lsvet  {code | hist}  managed-system [ [attribute-names] []] ]   Description The lsvet command lists activation information for  advanced functions.  advanced functions include  and Enterprise Enablement.  advanced functions are sometimes referred to as Virtualization Engine  systems technologies.   Flags Flag name Description -t   The IP address or host name of the managed system. Use code for the Virtualization Engine systems technologies activation codes, and hist for the Virtualization Engine systems technologies activation history log.   Attribute name   time_stamp=08/30/2007 00:16:28,entry=[VIOSI0500040A-0336]  processor capacity limit enabled.    -m  The name of the managed system for which information is to be listed. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss, where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. The tttt-mmm*ssssssss form must be used if there are multiple managed systems with the same user-defined name. -F  A delimiter separated list of attribute names representing the desired attribute values to display. If this option is specified without any attribute names, then all of the attributes will be displayed.  When this option is specified, only attribute values will be displayed. No attribute names will be displayed. The attribute values displayed will be separated by the delimiter which was specified with this option.  This option is useful when only attribute values are desired to be displayed, or when the values of only selected attributes are desired to be displayed.  --header Display a header record, which is a delimiter separated list of attribute names for the attribute values that will be displayed. This header record will be the first record displayed. This option is only valid when used with the -F option.  --help Display the help text for this command and exit.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Examples To display the activation code generation information, type the following command:   lsvet -m sys1 -t code  To display the activation history log, type the following command: lsvet -m 9117-570*1001213 -t hist  time_stamp=02/07/2006 19:52:03,entry=HSCL0421 POWER Hypervisor code entered. time_stamp=02/07/2006 19:52:03,entry=HSCL0403 Virtual I/O server                                                capability enabled. time_stamp=02/07/2006 19:52:03,entry=HSCL0405 Micro-partitioning                                                capability enabled. time_stamp=02/07/2006 19:52:03,entry=HSCL0406 Multiple partitions enabled.     Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM migrlpar command Purpose Moves active or inactive logical partitions from one physical system to another physical system. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To validate a migration  migrlpar [ v <managed system>  <managed system>  <target HMC/IVM IP address> [ <target HMC/IVM user name>]] <partition name> | <partition ID>[ <profile name>] [<input data file> |  "<input data>"] [ <wait time>] [ <detail level>]  To migrate a logical partition   migrlpar [ m <managed system>  <managed system>  <target HMC/IVM IP address> [ <target HMC/IVM user name>]] <partition name> | <partition ID>[ <profile name>] [<input data file> |  "<input data>"] [ <wait time>] [ <detail level>] [] []    To stop a migration  migrlpar [s <managed system> { <partition name> | <partition ID> } []  To recover from a failed partition migration  migrlpar [ r <managed system> [ <target HMC/IVM IP address>] [ <target HMC/IVM user name>] ] {<partition name> | <partition ID> }[] []   Description The migrlpar command validates, starts, stops, and recovers a partition migration. The  determines which type of migration to perform based on the state of the partition referenced in the command.   Flags Flag name Description -o  The partition migration operation. Possible values:  s - stops a partition migration m - validates and migrates a partition if the validation succeeds r - recover from a failed partition migration v - validates a partition migration -m managed system The name of the source managed system for the partition migration operation. The name may be the user-defined name for the managed system, or may be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss, where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. -t managed system The name of the target system for the partition migration operation. The name may be the user-defined name for the managed system, or may be in the form ttttmmm* ssssssss, where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. The -t flag is required when using the -o m or -o v flags. --ip target HMC/IVM IP address The IP address or hostname of the target system managing the or . -u target HMC/IVM user name The user name to use on the  that manages the target system or the . If --ip flag is specified and -u flag is not specified, the user name on the source  or  is used on the target  or . -p partition name The name of the partition on which to perform the migration. --id partition ID The ID of the partition on which to perform the migration. -n profile name  The name of the partition profile to be created for the migrated partition on the destination managed system. If this option is omitted when migrating a partition, then the last activated profile for the partition will be replaced with the current partition configuration on the destination managed system.  This option is only valid when migrating a partition or validating a partition migration.   This option is only valid if you are migrating to a system managed by the HMC.  If you are migrating to a system managed by the , the option is not used. -f input data file The name of the file containing the input data for the migrlpar command. The data given in the file specified with the -f flag, or the data specified with -i, must be in comma-separated (CSV) format. These switches can be used with the migrate (-o m) and the validate (-o v) operations. The following attributes are supported:  virtual_scsi_mappings, source_msp_name,  source_msp_ipaddr, source_msp_id,  dest_msp_name, dest_msp_ipaddr,  dest_msp_id, shared_proc_pool_id,  shared_proc_pool_name,   The data specified with the virtual_scsi_mappings attribute consists of one or more source virtual SCSI adapters to destination Virtual I/O Server logical partitions in the following format:  client_virtual_slot_num/dest_vios_lpar_name/ dest_vios_lpar_id  Attribute names  dest_msp_id Specifies the partition ID to use on the destination managed system. dest_msp_ipaddr Specifies the IP address of the mover service partition of the destination managed system.   This value is verified by comparing it with the output of the lstcpip -interfaces command. dest_msp_name Specifies the mover service partition name of the destination managed system.    paging_device The paging space device to use if a memory pool is used.  A paging device is a block storage device that has been added to the memory pool and is not designated as a paging device for any other logical partition.  If the paging_device value is a blank string, there is no paging device currently assigned. primary_paging_vios_id The ID of the primary paging Virtual I/O Server (VIOS) partition that provides access to the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions. A paging VIOS partition is a VIOS logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool. primary_paging_vios_name The name of the primary paging VIOS partition that provides access to the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions. A paging VIOS partition is a VIOS logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool.   shared_proc_pool_id The unique decimal identifier for a shared processing pool in which this logical partition should be on the target system. The default ID is zero. If  is the destination managed system, the ID must equal 0. shared_proc_pool_name Specifies the name of the shared processor pool in which this partition should be on the target system. This attribute is only valid for logical partitions using shared processors. The default value is DefaultPool.   source_msp_id Specifies the partition ID to use on the source managed system. On IVM, this ID must equal the ID of the Virtual I/O Server. source_msp_ipaddr  Specifies the IP address of the mover service partition of the source managed system.   This value is verified by comparing it with the output of the lstcpip -interfaces command. source_msp_name Specifies the mover service partition name of the source managed system. On IVM, this name must equal the name of the Virtual I/O Server logical partition.   virtual_fc_mappings Comma-separated list of virtual fibre channel adapters. Each item in this list has the format slot_num/vios_lpar_name/vios_lpar_id. For example, 4/vios2/3 specifies a virtual fibre channel adapter on a client logical partition  with a virtual slot number of 4, a VIOS partition name of vios2, and the ID of the destination VIOS logical partition of 3. virtual_scsi_mappings Comma-separated list of virtual SCSI adapters. Each item in this list has the format slot_num/vios_lpar_name/vios_lpar_id. For example, 2/vios/1 specifies a client virtual SCSI adapter with a virtual slot number of 2, a VIOS partition name of vios, and the ID of the destination VIOS logical partition of 1. -i input data The input data for the migrlpar command. The format of the filter data is attr_name1=value,attr_name2=value,... or attr_name1=value1,value2,... ,... -w wait time The maximum time, in minutes, to wait for the operating system commands issued by the  or  to the partition to be migrated to complete. -d detail level The level of detail requested from the operating system commands issued by the  or  to all partitions participating in the migration. Values range from 0 (none) to 5 (highest). --async  The command returns after the validation is completed. This flag does  not wait for the migration to complete. This is only valid with the -o m flag. -v Enables verbose mode for the partition migration operation. When verbose mode is enabled, detail messages and warning messages are displayed for a successful partition migration. Detail messages and warning messages are always displayed for a partition migration that fails, regardless of whether this option is specified. --force Forces a recover operation to proceed when errors are encountered. This option is only valid when recovering from a failed partition migration and can be initiated from either the source VIOS logical partition or the destination managed system. If the operation is initiated from the destination managed system, only the destination managed system is recovered. reduntantpgvios  {0 | 1 | 2} Specifies whether to configure the partition for redundancy on the target managed system. Possible values follow: 0 Do not configure the partition for redundancy on the target managed system. 1 Configure the partition for redundancy on the target managed system. 2 Configure the partition for redundancy if possible on the target managed system.  If redundancy is not possible, configure as non-redundant. If you do not specify the parameter, the current redundancy level of the migrating partition is used. --help Displays the help text for this command and exit.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Examples To validate a partition migration, type the following command: migrlpar -o v -m migfspL1 --ip migivm2 -t migfspL2 --id 5  -i "shared_proc_pool_name=ProcPoolA" To perform a partition migration, type the following command:  migrlpar -o m -m migfspL1 --ip migivm2 -t migfspL2 --id 5 -i "source_msp_id=1,  source_msp_ipaddr=9.3.252.192,dest_msp_id=1,dest_msp_ipaddr=9.3.126.77" To perform a partition migration for logical partitions that use virtual fibre channel adapters, type the following command: migrlpar -o m -m migfspL1 --ip migivm2 -t migfspL2 --id 5  -i "virtual_fc_mappings=5/VIOS/1,6/VIOS3/3" To stop a partition migration, type the following command:  migrlpar -o s -m migfspL1 --id 5      To recover from a failed partition migration, type the following command: migrlpar -o r -m migfspL1 --id 5            Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM mkauthkeys command Purpose Allows key-based SSH authentication between two systems.  This updates the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys2 file with the specified public key.  It can also be used to push the users public key to a remote  or  system.   Syntax To add the SSH key as an authorized key locally:  mkauthkeys {  |  } <key string>  To remove the SSH key locally:   mkauthkeys {  |  } [  <user> ] <key string>  To exchange public keys with a remote system:  mkauthkeys {  |  }   <remote system> [   <user> ] <key string>  To test the remote non-interactive authentication using the SSH key:   mkauthkeys    <remote system> [  <user> ]   Description The mkauthkeys command updates the  user's authorized_keys2 file.   Flags Flag name Description -a  Adds the ssh command key. -g  Displays the public key for the specified user and generates the user's public and private key pair if they do not exist. -r  Removes the key for the specified user ID and host. --add Adds the ssh command key. --remove Removes the key for the specified user ID and host. --test Verifies authentication to the remote host  --ip <remote server IP> Allows installing this user's public key on the specified remote  or  system for the user specified with -u flag. If -u  flag is not specified, the remote user's public key will be installed on the local system. -u username Specifies the user name to add or remove the key. You must have hmcsuperadmin or PAdmin authority to add or remove key for other users. key string The ssh command key to add to or the ID to remove.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Examples To add the SSH key generated for user joe@somehost , type the following command:    mkauthkeys -a 'adB8fqeZs2d-gg+q joe@somehost To display the current user's public key, type the following command: mkauthkeys -g To display the public key for fred, type the following command: mkauthkeys -g -u fred To remove the SSH key generated for user joe@somehost, type the following command: mkauthkeys -r 'adB8fqeZs2d-gg+q joe@somehost' To remove all SSH keys generated for user joe@somehost, type the following command: mkauthkeys -r 'joe@somehost' To add the SSH key generated for this user to a remote.host as user  fred, type the following command: mkauthkeys -a --ip remote.host -u fred   The user will prompted for the password on the remote.host. To enable user from somesystem with public key ssh-rsa thersakeygoeshere= to access the  without using a password, type the following command:  mkauthkeys -a ssh-rsa thersakeygoeshere= user@somesystem To remove the key from the authorized key list, type the following command:  mkauthkeys -r ssh-rsa thersakeygoeshere= user@somesystem To remove all keys that end with the string user@somesystem, type the following command:  mkauthkeys -r user@somesystem To allow the padmin user to remove a key for any user, type the following command:  mkauthkeys -r -u user ssh-rsa thersakeygoeshere= user@somesystem To add the current user's local public key to the authorized keys list on a remote system, and adds the user's remote public key to the authorized keys list on the local system, type the following command:  mkauthkeys -a --ip othersystem.com To add the current user's local public key to the authorized keys list for remote user user on a remote system, and adds the remote public key of user to the authorized keys list for the current user on the local system, type the following command:  mkauthkeys -a --ip othersystem.com -u user To verify non-interactive authentication using the SSH key for the current user, type the following command:  mkauthkeys --test --ip othersystem.com   If it returns 0, then non-interactive authentication is working properly.  If mkauthkeys returns nonzero, then non-interactve authentication is not configured properly and displays the following message: [VIOSE0104200B-0217] Permission denied (publickey,password,keyboard-interactive). To verify non-interactive authentication using the SSH key for the current user on local system to specify the user on a remote system, type the following command:  mkauthkeys --test --ip othersystem.com -u user   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM mkgencfg command Purpose Performs the initial logical partition configuration for the managed system.  This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax mkgencfg -o init [-i "ConfigurationData" ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The mkgencfg command performs the initial logical partition configuration for the managed system.  As part of the initial configuration, virtual Ethernet adapters are created in the management partition.  The virtual Ethernet MAC address prefix can optionally be configured through this command.   Flags Flag name Description -o Operation 	 The type of operations: init - Perform initial logical partition configuration actions for the managed system  -i ConfigurationData The configuration data consists of attribute name/value pairs, which are in a comma separated value (CSV) format.   The format of a configuration record is as follows:   "attribute-name=value,attribute-name=value,..."    Note that certain attributes accept a comma separated list of values, as follows:    ""attribute-name=value,value,...",..."    When you specify a list of values, the attribute name/value pair must be enclosed in double quotation marks.  Depending on the shell being used, nested double quotation marks might need to be preceded by an escape character.   Valid Attributes for Configuration Data:   mac_prefix The prefix needs to be a 3 byte hexadecimal value. It specifies the first 2.5 bytes of the MAC address to be assigned to all virtual Ethernet adapters for this managed system. The value cannot be a multicast address (010000 bit must be off), and needs to be a private address (020000 bit must be on). For example, a valid MAC address prefix is 0642A0. pend_configured_max_lpars The maximum number of partitions supported by the management partition after the next restart.    virtual_eth_mac_base_value The virtual Ethernet MAC address base value is a per partition value.  The base value is used to build the MAC addresses for each virtual Ethernet adapter in that partition.  The base value is the first 5 bytes of the MAC address.  The virtual slot number of the virtual Ethernet adapter makes up the last byte. If you do not assign a base value, one is generated automatically using the following format: Base value = 0xSSSSSBBBBB Where SSSSS is the system wide MAC address prefix and BBBBB is a randomly generated sequence of bits (guaranteed to be unique within this physical system).   The system wide MAC prefix is randomly generated unless you override it using mkgencfg -o init -i mac_prefix. If the base value is automatically generated, then the MAC address format for a virtual Ethernet adapter is 0xSSSSSBBBBBNN, where NN is the slot number. If you specify the base value using mkgencfg for partition 1 or mksyscfg/chsyscfg for any other partition, then the format is 0xBBBBBBBBBBNN, where BBBBBBBBBB is the base value that you specified. If a virtual Ethernet adapter is in a slot greater than or equal to 256, then the slot number overflows into the base value, since it does not fit in 1 byte.  For example,  handles it as 0xBBBBBBBBBB00 + 0x00000000NNNN. The mkgencfg command is the only way to specify the base value for partition 1.  After this value is set, you cannot change it without losing all partition configuration. If you need to change the value, use the lpcfgop command. The value is set implicitly when mkgencfg is running. The value will be generated automatically, unless you specify the value. The mkgencfg command runs implicitly when you run your first change command. You can change the base value for any other partition, when the partition is powered off.   A side effect of setting the base value for partition 1 with mkgencfg, is that the system wide prefix is set to the first 2.5 bytes of the partition 1 base value.  As a result, there are restrictions on setting both mac_prefix and virtual_eth_mac_base_value with mkgencfg at the same time.  If you specify both, the mac_prefix value needs to be equal to the first 2.5 bytes of the virtual_eth_mac_base_value value.       -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name might either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.   Exit Status This command has a return code of zero on success.   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples To initialize the logical partition configuration for the managed system using defaults, type:  mkgencfg -o init   To initialize the logical partition configuration for the managed system with support for 17 partitions and a MAC prefix of 0x06ABC0, type:  mkgencfg -o init -i "pend_lpm_max_lpars=17,mac_prefix=06ABC0"   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM mksvcevent command Purpose Creates a new serviceable event. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax mksvcevent -d Description --reporting_mtms ReportingMTMS   Description The mksvcevent command creates a serviceable event with the specified description.  This event will show up in the list of serviceable events obtained by the  command.   Flags Flag name Description -d Description 	 The description or text of the event. 	 -reporting_mtms ReportingMTMS The type-model*serial of the reporting system.  This should be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.   Exit Status This command has a return code of zero on success.   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples To create a serviceable event, type:  mksvcevent -d This is a test event entry -reporting_mtms 9111-520*XXXXXXX   Related Information The  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM mksyscfg command Purpose Creates a logical partition on the managed system. This command is operable only in an  environment.    Syntax   To create a logical partition on the managed system  mksyscfg -r lpar { -f ConfigurationFile | -i ConfigurationData } [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The mksyscfg command creates a logical partition on the managed system.   Flags Flag name Description -r ResourceType 	 The type of resources to create:   lpar - Logical  partition resources  -m ManagedSystem 	 The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name might either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. -f  ConfigurationFile The name of the file containing  the  configuration  data  needed  to  change  the resources.   The  configuration data consists of attribute name/value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format.  These attribute name/value pairs  form a configuration record.  A line feed marks the end of a configuration record.  The file must contain one configuration record for each resource to  be  changed,  and each  configuration  record  must  be for the same resource type.  If the resource type is the managed system or the managed frame, then the file must  contain  only one configuration record. The format of a configuration record is as follows:  attribute-name=value,attribute-name=value,...<LF>  Note that certain attributes accept a comma separated list of values, as follows:   "attribute-name=value,value,...",...<LF>  When a list of values is specified, the attribute name/value pair must be enclosed in double quotation marks.  Depending on the shell being used, nested double quotation marks might need to be preceded by an escape character.   Required attributes for partitions  desired_mem The assigned megabytes of memory for this partition   lpar_env A required attribute that indicates the type of partition to create. This attribute is used to create an RPA partition, which supports  name Name of the partition to create. max_mem The maximum megabytes of memory for this partition   min_mem The minimum megabytes of memory for this partition.    Optional attributes for partitions allow_perf_collection Permission for the partition to retrieve shared processor pool utilization information Valid values are:  0: do not allow authority  1: allow authority alt_restart_device_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the alternate restart device for the  logical partition. If the load source slot is a value other than none, then this attribute is optional. Valid values are:  Slot Number (virtual I/O) none   alt_console_slot The location of the physical I/O slot that contains the alternate console device for the  logical partition. The default value is none.  auto_start Valid values are:  0 - do not automatically start with system power on  1 - automatically start with system power on boot_mode Partition power on mode. Valid values are:  norm - normal  dd - diagnostic with default boot list  ds - diagnostic with stored boot list  of - Open Firmware OK prompt  sms - System Management Services   console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the console device for the  logical partition. Valid values are:  Slot Number (virtual I/O) none desired_io_entitled_mem The amount of I/O entitled memory for a shared memory partition.  This is the portion of memory that is reserved for I/O mappings. auto (automatically manage) Number of megabytes If the value is auto, the entitlement is calculated based on the virtual I/O configuration of the logical partition. If the virtual I/O configuration is changed, the entitlement is updated automatically.  If auto is not used, no automatic adjustments are made.  The default value is auto. desired_proc_units The assigned number of processing units for this partition   desired_procs The assigned number of processors for this partition.  In shared processing mode, this refers to virtual processors. io_slots Comma separated list of I/O slots for the partition.  Each item in this list has the format: drc_index/slot_io_pool_id/is_required The attribute names are not present in the list, just their values are present. For example, 21010003/none/1, specifies an I/O slot with a DRC index of 0x21010003 which is not assigned to an I/O pool, and it is a required slot.  Valid values for is_required:  0 - no  1 - yes ipl_source The IPL source for the  logical partition. This attribute is optional. Valid values are:  a b c d (default)   lhea_capabilities Comma-separated list of logical  capabilities, with each capability having one of the following formats: adapter-ID/capability  or adapter-ID/5/ieq/nieq/qp/cq/mr where ieq (interruptible event queues), nieq (non-interruptible event queues), qp (queue pairs), cq (completion queues), and mr (memory regions) each specify the resource amount in addition to the base minimum. Valid values are: 0 - minimum 1 - low 2 - medium 3 - high 4 - dedicated 5 - custom lhea_logical_ports Comma-separated list of Logical  (LHEA) logical ports, with each logical port having the following format:  adapter-ID/port-group/physical-port-ID/  logical-port-ID/allowed -VLAN-IDs   All four '/' characters must be present, but optional values may be omitted. Optional values are allowed-VLAN-IDs.   load_source_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the load source for the  logical partition. If the alt_restart_device_slot has a value other than none, then this attribute is optional. Valid values are:  Slot Number (virtual I/O) none lpar_avail_priority The priority of the partition to maintain its entitled processors. If a processor failure occurs, processing resources will be removed first from the lowest priority partition. lpar_id Unique integer ID for the partition. If this attribute is not specified, the lowest available partition will be assigned.   lpar_proc_compat_mode The requested compatibility mode. Use lssyscfg -r sys -F lpar_proc_compat_modes to retrieve a list of valid values. max_procs The maximum number of processors for this partition.  In shared processing mode, this refers to virtual processors. max_proc_units The maximum number of processing units for this partition   max_virtual_slots Maximum number of virtual I/O adapter slots.   The system determines this value. mem_mode The partition memory mode.  ded - dedicated memory shared - shared memory If the memory mode is shared, then the logical partition cannot be assigned any physical I/O slots or host Ethernet adapter resources, the proc_mode attribute on the logical partition must be shared, and a memory pool must exist.  If the memory mode is omitted, then it is assumed to be a dedicated memory mode. The Virtual I/O Server logical partition only supports the dedicated memory mode. mem_weight The shared memory weight of the logical partition that uses shared memory.  This attribute is used for determining the priority of logical partitions in a memory pool for distribution of memory. The weight must be a value from 0 - 255.  If a value is not specified, the default is 128. min_procs The minimum number of processors for this partition.  In shared processing mode, this refers to virtual processors. min_proc_units The minimum number of processing units for this partition   op_console_slot The location of the virtual I/O slot that contains the directly-attached operations console device for the  logical partition. The default value is none. paging_device The paging space device to use if a memory pool is used.  A paging device is a block storage device that has been added to the memory pool and is not designated as a paging device for any other logical partition.  This attribute is optional. If omitted, an appropriate paging device is selected automatically. If the paging_device value is a blank string, no device is assigned. proc_mode Valid values are:  ded- dedicated processor mode  shared- shared processor mode   profile_name Name of the profile to create. This attribute is not required, but if specified, must be the same as the name attribute. sharing_mode Value values are:  keep_idle_procs- never share processors  share_idle_procs- share processors  only when the partition  is  inactive  share_idle_procs_always- share processors  only when the partition is active share_idle_procs_active- always share processors cap- capped mode uncap- uncapped mode uncap_weight A weighted average of processing priority when in uncapped sharing mode.  The smaller the value, the lower the weight. Valid values are: 0 - 255    virtual_eth_adapters Comma-separated list of virtual Ethernet adapters, with each adapter having the following format: slot_number/is_ieee/port_vlan_id/additional_vlan_ids/ is_trunk/is_required All 5 '/' characters must be present, but optional values might be omitted.  Optional values are additional_vlan_ids, and is_trunk. Valid values for is_ieee, is_trunk, and is_required:  0 - no  1 - yes For example, 4/0/2//0/0 specifies a virtual Ethernet adapter with a virtual slot number of 4, is not IEEE 802.1Q enabled, has a port virtual LAN ID of 2, no additional virtual LAN IDs, it is not a trunk adapter, and is not required.   virtual_fc_adapters Comma-separated list of virtual fibre channel adapters.  Each item in this list has the following format:  virtual slot num/adapter_type/remote_lpar_id/ remote_lpar_name/remote_slot_num/wwpn_list/is_required Required values: remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name, adapter_type, virtual_slot_num     You can specify either remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name, or use them both, but at least one of the values is required.  Valid values for adapter_type: client server   If you specify a value for adapter type, the Integrated Virtualization Manager (IVM) requires the adapter type to be a client.  Optional values: wwpn_list, is_required, remote_slot_num   When you add a virtual fibre channel adapter, wwpn_list can be left blank to allow IVM to automatically assign worldwide port names to the client adapter.  If you leave wwpn_list blank and the virtual slot number specified for this adapter already contains a virtual fibre channel adapter, IVM will use the worldwide port names that are already assigned.  New worldwide port names will only be generated if it is a new adapter. If you specify a wwpn_list value, there must be exactly two values.  Each worldwide port name must be a 16-character hexadecimal value.  These values are not case sensitive.   Valid values for is_required:  0 - no  1 - yes A value of none or an empty string indicates that no virtual fibre channel adapters should be assigned.   If the logical partition being changed is the Virtual I/O Server, you cannot change the current configuration. The IVM handles the client and server adapter as a pair; therefore, IVM handles changes automatically.   virtual_scsi_adapters Comma-separated list of virtual SCSI adapters. Each item in this list has the format:  slot_num/adapter_type/remote_lpar_id/remote_lpar_name/ remote_slot_num/is_required  The attribute names are not present in the list, just their values are present. If an attribute is optional and is not to be included, then no value is specified for that attribute. For example, 2/client//lpar2/3/0 specifies a virtual client SCSI adapter with a virtual slot number of 2, a server partition name of lpar2, a server slot number of 3, and is not required. The server partition ID was omitted.  Required values: slot_num, adapter_type, remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name    You can specify remote_lpar_id, remote_lpar_name, or both, but at least one of the values is required.  Optional values: is_required, remote_slot_num    IVM requires that virtual slot number 2 always contain a virtual SCSI adapter, so if you specify adapters in any other slots, the default adapter is still created in slot number 2.  If you use the chsyscfg command with an empty list for the virtual_scsi_adapters attribute, all virtual SCSI adapters are removed, except the default adapter.  Valid values for adapter_type:  client: client adapter server: server adapter, valid for Virtual I/O Server logical partitions only  Valid values for is_required: 0 - no 1 - yes work_group_id Valid values:  none: do not participate in the workload management group  1: participate in the workload management group -i ConfigurationData This option allows you to enter configuration data on the command line, instead of using a file. Data entered on the command line must follow the same format as data in a file, and must be enclosed in double quotation marks.  When this option is used, only a single resource can be changed.  The -i and the -f options are mutually exclusive.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples To create a partition named lp3 with 128 megabytes, type:        mksyscfg -r lpar -i "name=lp3,lpar_env=aixlinux,min_mem=128,desired_mem=128,\ max_mem=128" To create a partition with 128 megabytes and a dedicated processor, type: mksyscfg -r lpar -i "name=lp4,lpar_env=aixlinux,min_mem=128,desired_mem=128,\ max_mem=128,proc_mode=ded, sharing_mode=share_idle_procs,min_procs=1,\ desired_procs=1,max_procs=2" To create a partition with 128 megabytes and 0.2 shared processing units, type:  mksyscfg -r lpar -i "name=lp2,lpar_env=aixlinux,min_mem=128,desired_mem=128,\ max_mem=128,proc_mode=shared, sharing_mode=uncap,min_procs=1,\ desired_procs=1,max_procs=2,min_proc_units=0.1,desired_proc_units=0.2,\ max_proc_units=2" To create a partition with 128 megabytes and 0.2 shared processing units, and a virtual Ethernet adapter on VLAN 1, type:        mksyscfg -r lpar -i "name=lp2,lpar_env=aixlinux,min_mem=128,desired_mem=128,\ max_mem=128,proc_mode=shared, sharing_mode=uncap,min_procs=1,desired_procs=1,\ max_procs=2,min_proc_units=0.1,desired_proc_units=0.2, max_proc_units=2,\ virtual_eth_adapters=4/0/1//0/0"  To create a partition with 128 megabytes and 0.2 shared processing units, a virtual Ethernet adapter on VLAN 1, and HEA ports 3 and 4, type: mksyscfg -r lpar -i "name=lp2,lpar_env=aixlinux,min_mem=128,desired_mem=128,\ max_mem=128,proc_mode=shared, sharing_mode=uncap,min_procs=1,desired_procs=1,\ max_procs=2,min_proc_units=0.1,desired_proc_units=0.2, max_proc_units=2,\ virtual_eth_adapters=4/0/1//0/0,\ \ "lhea_logical_ports=23000000/1/0/3/all,23000000/1/1/4/all\",\ lhea_capabilities=23000000/0/////" To create a logical partition with 1 gigabyte, 2 virtual processors, and 2 virtual Ethernet adapters, type: mksyscfg -r lpar -i 'name=lp2,lpar_env=aixlinux,min_mem=256,desired_mem=1024,\ max_mem=2048,proc_mode=shared,sharing_mode=uncap,min_procs=1,desired_procs=2,\ max_procs=2,min_proc_units=0.1,desired_proc_units=0.2,max_proc_units=2,\ "virtual_eth_adapters=4/0/1//0/0,""5/1/2/212,313/0/0"""'   Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM os_install command Purpose Performs network installation operations on OS_install objects. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax Traditional usage:  OS_install  { Operation} [  attr=value... ] {ObjectName}  For listing OS_install objects (list mode):  OS_install   [] [ object_type | object_name]    Description The OS_install command performs a network installation operation on an OS_install object. The type of operation is dependent on the type of object specified by the ObjectName parameter. The object pointed to by the ObjectName parameter can be one of three types: client, OS_Resource, or ControlHost. Command operations involve the creation and management of OS_install objects in order to perform network installation of operating systems on client systems.  The list mode of the OS_install command is used to list the current configuration of objects in the OS_install environment.   Flags Flag name Description -a attr=value Assigns the specified value to the specified attribute.  lists the required and optional attributes for a specific operation. -l Lists all OS_install objects in the environment by default. -o Operation Specifies an operation to perform on an OS_install object. -t object_type | object_name Narrows the list returned by the -l flag to only objects of type object_type or to the single OS_install object specified by object_name. -v Displays the list returned by the -l flag.   Operations Operation Description Required Attributes Optional Attributes define_client [-a attr=value...] {ClientObjectName} Defines a new client object.  ip_addr Client's IP address. mac_addr MAC address of client's network interface. gateway Client's IP gateway. subnet_mask Client's IP subnet mask.  adapter_speed Speed of client's network adapter. adapter_duplex  Duplex setting of client's network adapter. lpar LPAR name to install client. profile LPAR profile to use for client. managed_system Name of managed system that contains LPAR. disk_location Location of disk to install client. ctrl_host Name of Hardware Control Host object for this client. define_resource [-a attr=value...] {ResourceObjectName} Defines a new OS_Resource object.  type Linux version Operating system version  location Absolute path where OS_Resource will reside. source Source of installation images. configfile Installation configuration file. define_ctrl_host [-a attr=value...] {ControlHostObjectName} Defines a new Hardware Control Host object.  communication_method ssh, rsh, or local hostname Host name of control host. type hmc or ivm None. allocate [-a attr=value...] {ClientObjectName} Allocates an OS_Resource object to a client object. Both objects must already exist in the OS_install environment. An error will occur if the client object has an OS_Resource object already allocated to it.  os_resource Existing OS_Resource object to allocate to the client object. None. netboot {ClientObjectName} Instructs the hardware control host of the client object to initiate a network boot. None. None. monitor_installation {ClientObjectName} Monitors the installation status of the client object. None. None. deallocate {ClientObjectName} Deallocates the OS_Resource object that was allocated to the client object by an allocate operation. None. None. remove {ObjectName} Removes the object from the OS_install environment. None. None.   Exit Status The following exit values are returned: Return code Description 0 The command completed successfully. >0 An error occurred.   Examples  To define a client object, type a command similar to the following:   OS_install -o define_client -a ip_addr=128.0.64.117  -a mac_addr=ab:cc:de:10:23:45 -a gateway=128.0.64.1  -a subnet_mask=255.255.255.0 -a ctrl_host=myhmc -a lpar=AIX1  -a profile=AIX1 -a managed_system=myMngSys myclient01 To define an OS_Resource object, type a command similar to the following: OS_install -o define_resource -a location=/images/AIX/53ML3 -a type=AIX  -a version=53ML3 my53resource To allocate the OS_Resource object defined in the preceding example to a client object, type a command similar to the following:  OS_install -o allocate -a os_resource=my53resource myclient01  To deallocate the my53resource client object that was allocated in the preceding example, type:  OS_install -o deallocate myclient01  To define a ControlHost object to be specified for the ctrl_host attribute, type a command similar to the following:  OS_install -o define_ctrl_host -a type=ivm -a hostname=ivm_hostname  -a communication_method=ssh myivm  To view a myclient01 installation, type:   OS_install -o monitor_installation myclient01  To remove the definition of the my53resource object, type:   OS_install -o remove my53resource  To remove the definition of the myclient01 object, type:   OS_install -o remove myclient01   If an OS_Resource object is specified, the remove operation also removes any OS images that exist in the file system directory that is specified by the object's location attribute.   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM rmsyscfg command Purpose Removes a logical partition from the managed system. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax rmsyscfg -r lpar { -n ParitionName | --id PartitionID }   Description The rmsyscfg command removes a logical partition from the managed system.   Flags Flag name Description -r ResourceType 	 The type of resources to remove: lpar  - Logical  partition resources  	    -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system. 	 -n PartitionName The name of the partition which you want to remove.  --id PartitionID 	 The partition ID of the partition to remove.   Exit Status This command has a return code of zero on success.   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples To delete a partition with an lpar ID of 3, type:  rmsyscfg -r lpar --id 3   To delete a partition a name of lp3, type:  rmsyscfg -r lpar -n lp3   Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM rsthwres command Purpose Restores hardware resources. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax rsthwres  io | mem | proc | virtualio  [ <managed system>] [ <partition name> |  <partition ID>] [ <DRC index>] [<virtual slot number>]  []  rsthwres hea |  <managed system>] [ <partition name> |  <partition ID>] [<HEA DRC index>] [ <port group ID>] <logical port ID>]]  To restore memory or processing resources  rsthwres  {mem | proc} [{ partition-name |  partition-ID}]  To restore physical I/O slots  rsthwres  io [{ partition-name |  partition-ID}] [ slot-DRC-index]  To restore  resources  rsthwres  hea [{ partition-name |  partition-ID}] [HEA-adapter-ID] [ port-group logical-port-ID]  To restore memory pool resources  rsthwres  mempool  []   Description The rsthwres command restores the hardware resource configuration in the managed system. This operation may need to be performed after a dynamic LPAR operation fails.  You also need to perform this operation to restore memory pool resources in the following situations: When you reinstall the VIOS base code and applied fix packs from original VIOS media.  When you restore the VIOS from backup media prior to the time you created the memory pool, but the firmware still has a memory pool configured.   Flags Flag name Description -r  Shows the type of hardware resources to restore:  io I/O slot (physical) hea mem Memory mempool Memory pools proc Processing virtualio Virtual I/O -m <managed system> Indicates the name of the managed system which has the partitions for which to restore the hardware resources. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss, where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.  -p< partition name>  Indicates the name of the partition for which to restore the hardware resources.   To restore hardware resources for a single partition, you must either use this option to specify the name of the partition, or use the --id option to specify the partition's ID. Otherwise, hardware resources for all partitions in the managed-system will be restored.    The -p and the --id options are mutually exclusive.  --id  Indicates the ID of the partition for which to restore the hardware resources.  To restore hardware resources for a single partition, you must either use this option to specify the ID of the partition, or use the -p option to specify the partition's name. Otherwise, hardware resources for all partitions in the managed-system will be restored.  The --id and the -p options are mutually exclusive. -l <DRC index>  Indicates the DRC index of the physical I/O slot to restore. This option is only valid when restoring physical I/O slots.  This option is also used to specify the physical  to restore. -s < Indicates the slot number of the virtual I/O.  -a "< The configuration data needed to set hardware resource related attributes. The configuration data consists of attribute name/value pairs, which are in comma separated value (CSV) format. The configuration data must be enclosed in quotation marks. Possible values are: paging_storage_pool   If you intend to use a paging storage pool, you must specify the value here. After you run the  command, you cannot set or change the paging storage pool value without deleting your memory pool and recreating it. The -a parameter is valid only with -r mempool, and the only supported attribute is paging_storage_pool. Indicates the logical ports that are part of the specified port group that will be restored. --logport < Indicates the ID of the logical port to recover. --help Displays the help text for this command and exit.    Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Examples To restore the physical I/O slots for all partitions, type the following command: rsthwres -r io -m mySystem To restore the physical I/O slot with DRC index 21010003, type the following command:  rsthwres -r io -m 9406-570*12345678 -l 21010003 To restore memory resources for partition pl, type the following command:rsthwres -r mem -m 9406-570*12345678 -p p1   To restore processing resources for the partition with ID 1, type the following command: rsthwres -r proc -m mySystem --id 1 To clean up all recoverable  resources, type the following command:  rsthwres -r hea To clean up a specific logical port with a given partition, type the following command:  rsthwres -r hea -l <HEA DRC> -g <PORT GROUP>  --logport <LP ID> {-p <LPAR NAME | --id <LPAR ID>}   To recover a memory pool using rootvg as the paging storage pool, type the following command:rsthwres -r mempool -a paging_storage_pool=rootvg  If you intend to use a paging storage pool, you must specify the value here. After you run the  command, you cannot set or change the paging storage pool value without deleting your memory pool and recreating it. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 IVM rstprofdata command Purpose Restores profile data. This command is operable only in an  environment.   Syntax To restore logical partition configuration data from a file:  rstprofdata -l RestoreType [-f RestoreFile] [ --ignoremtms ] [ --ignoremac ] [ --ignorehea ] [ -m ManagedSystem ]   Description The rstprofdata command performs a restore of logical partition configuration information from a file which was created with the command.  Logical partition configuration must be cleared using the  command before performing a restore operation.  The restore operation may require a restart of the managed system, after which the  command should be run again with the same parameters as were used the first time (before the system restart).   Flags Flag name Description -l  RestoreType 	 The type of restore to perform.  Valid options are: 1 - full restore from the backup file    -f RestoreFile 			 The name of the file to read from in the current working directory.  If not specified, the default file is "/var/adm/lpm/profile.bak" 	 --ignoremtms Do not fail the restore operation if the type, model, or serial number of the managed system does not match the values in the backup file. This flag is used for the following primary reasons:  To clone the configuration from one system to another. To force new worldwide port names to be allocated for any logical partitions that use virtual fibre channel.   If you use the -ignoremtms flag, new worldwide port names are generated. --ignoremac Do not try to restore the virtual Ethernet MAC addresses from the backup file.  Default to the automatically generated MAC addresses. --ignorehea Do not try to restore the  resources. -m ManagedSystem The name of the managed system.  This attribute is optional because there is only one system to manage. The name may either be the user-defined name for the managed system, or be in the form tttt-mmm*ssssssss,  where tttt is the machine type, mmm is the model, and ssssssss is the serial number of the managed system.  --help  Display the help text for this command and exit.   Exit Status This command has a return code of 0 on success.   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples To restore the partition configuration data from /var/adm/lpm/profile.bak, type:  rstprofdata -l 1  To restore the partition configuration data from lparData.bak without validating that the type, model, and serial number match, type:  rstprofdata -l 1 -f lparData.bak --ignoremtms   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Logical volume commands Commands related to configuring and managing logical volumes for the . Parent topic:          
 chlv command Purpose Changes the characteristics of a logical volume.   Syntax To change the name of a logical volume:  chlv {  NewLogicalVolumeName | -bbr value}LogicalVolume   Description The chlv command changes the characteristics of a logical volume according to the command flags. The LogicalVolume parameter can be a logical volume name or logical volume ID. The chlv command can rename and set the bad-block relocation (BBR) policy. Changing the name of a logical volume and setting the bad-block relocation policy are the only supported options.   A logical volume that has been assigned as a backing device cannot be renamed. Although supported, it is not recommended that the bad-block relocation policy be enabled on the Virtual I/O Server for Virtual Small Computer System Interface (VSCSI) devices. Instead, the bad-block relocation policy needs to be enabled for VSCSI devices on the client.  Doing so ensures that the bad-block relocation policy is enabled for VSCSI devices that use logical volumes and physical volumes as storage and provides better performance. Also, enabling the bad-block relocation policy is recommended for paging spaces used by .   Flags Flag name Description -lv Specifies the logical volume. -bbr Sets the bad-block relocation policy. The value can be either: yes (Causes bad-block relocation to occur.) no (Prevents bad block relocation from occurring.)   Examples To change the logical volume name from oldlv to newlv, type: chlv -lv newlv oldlv To enable the bad-block relocation policy for the logical volume testlv, type: chlv -bbr yes testlv To disable the bad-block relocation policy for the logical volume lv01, type: chlv -bbr no lv01   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 cplv command Purpose Copies the contents of a logical volume to a new logical volume.   Syntax To Copy to a New Logical Volume   cplv [  VolumeGroup ] [  NewLogicalVolume |   Prefix ] SourceLogicalVolume   To Copy to an Existing Logical Volume   cplv [  ] SourceLogicalVolume DestinationLogicalVolume   Description  Do not copy from a larger logical volume containing data to a smaller one. Doing so results in a corrupted file system because some data is not copied.   The cplv command copies the contents of SourceLogicalVolume to a new or existing logical volume. The SourceLogicalVolume parameter can be a logical volume name or a logical volume ID. The cplv command creates a new logical volume with a system-generated name by using the default syntax. The system-generated name is displayed.   The cplv command cannot copy logical volumes which are in the open state, including logical volumes that are being used as backing devices for virtual storage.   Flags Flag name Description -f Copies to an existing logical volume without requesting user confirmation. -lv NewLogicalVolume Specifies the name to use, in place of a system-generated name, for the new logical volume. Logical volume names must be unique systemwide names, and can range from 1 to 15 characters. -prefix Prefix Specifies a prefix to use in building a system-generated name for the new logical volume. The prefix must be less than or equal to 13 characters. A name cannot be a name already used by another device. -vg VolumeGroup Specifies the volume group where the new logical volume resides. If this is not specified, the new logical volume resides in the same volume group as the SourceLogicalVolume.   Examples To copy the contents of logical volume fslv03 to a new logical volume, type:   cplv fslv03  The new logical volume is created, placed in the same volume group as fslv03, and named by the system. To copy the contents of logical volume fslv03 to a new logical volume in volume group vg02, type:   cplv  -vg vg02 fslv03  The new logical volume is created, named, and added to volume group vg02. To copy the contents of logical volume lv02 to a smaller, existing logical volume, lvtest, without requiring user confirmation, type:   cplv -f lv02 lvtest   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 extendlv command Purpose Increases the size of a logical volume.   Syntax extendlv LogicalVolume Size [ PhysicalVolume ... ]   Description The extendlv command increases the size of the logical volume. The LogicalVolume parameter can be a logical volume name or a logical volume ID. To limit the allocation to specific physical volumes, use the names of one or more physical volumes in the PhysicalVolume parameter; otherwise, all the physical volumes in a volume group are available for allocating new physical partitions.  The Size parameter specifies the minimum size the logical volume should be increased by. When specifying Size the following conventions must be used: Size Logical volume size ###M/m ### MB ###G/g ### GB   Exit Status See    Examples To increase the size of the logical volume lv05 by three megabytes, type: extendlv lv05 3M To request a logical volume named lv05 with a minimum size of 10MB, type: extendlv lv05 10M The extendlv command will determine the number of partitions needed to create a logical volume of at least that size.   Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lslv command Purpose Displays information about a logical volume.   Syntax lslv [  |  ]  LogicalVolume [  FieldName ] [  Delimiter ]  lslv  [  Fieldname ] [  Delimiter ]    Description The lslv command displays the characteristics and status of the LogicalVolume or lists the logical volume allocation map for the physical partitions on the PhysicalVolume  in which the logical volume is located. The logical volume can be a name or identifier.  If no flags are specified, the following status is displayed:  Flag name Description Logical volume  Name of the logical volume. Logical volume names must be unique systemwide and can range from 1 to 15 characters. Volume group Name of the volume group. Volume group names must be unique systemwide and can range from 1 to 15 characters. Logical volume identifier Identifier of the logical volume. Permission Access permission; read-only or read-write. Volume group state State of the volume group. If the volume group is activated with the activatevg command, the state is either active/complete (indicating all physical volumes are active) or active/partial (indicating all physical volumes are not active). If the volume group is not activated with the activatevg command, the state is inactive. Logical volume state  State of the logical volume. The Opened/stale status indicates the logical volume is open but contains physical partitions that are not current. Opened/syncd indicates the logical volume is open and synchronized. Closed indicates the logical volume has not been opened. Type Logical volume type. Write verify Write verify state of On or Off. Mirror write consistency  Mirror write consistency state of Yes or No. Max LPs Maximum number of logical partitions the logical volume can hold. PP size Size of each physical partition. Copies Number of physical partitions created for each logical partition when allocating. Schedule policy Sequential or parallel scheduling policy. LPs Number of logical partitions currently in the logical volume. PPs Number of physical partitions currently in the logical volume. Stale partitions  Number of physical partitions in the logical volume that are not current. Bad blocks Bad block relocation policy. Inter-policy Inter-physical allocation policy. Strictness Current state of allocation. Possible values are strict, nonstrict, or superstrict. A strict allocation states that no copies for a logical partition are allocated on the same physical volume. If the allocation does not follow the strict criteria, is called nonstrict. A nonstrict allocation states that at least one occurrence of two physical partitions belong to the same logical partition. A superstrict allocation states that no partition from one mirror copy may reside the same disk as another mirror copy. Intra-policy Intra-physical allocation policy. Upper bound If the logical volume is super strict, upper bound is the maximum number of disks in a mirror copy. Relocatable Indicates whether the partitions can be relocated if a reorganization of partition allocation takes place. Mount point File system mount point for the logical volume, if applicable. Label Specifies the label field for the logical volume. PV distribution The distribution of the logical volume within the volume group. The physical volumes used, the number of logical partitions on each physical volume, and the number of physical partitions on each physical volume are shown. striping width The number of physical volumes being striped across. strip size The number of bytes per stripe.  The -free flag displays logical volumes that are available to be used as backing devices for virtual storage.    Full scripting support is available by using the -field FieldNames and -fmt Delimiter flags.  The -field flag will allow the user to select which output fields to display and in what order, while the -fmt flag provides scriptable output.  The output fields will be displayed in the order they appear on the command line.    Flags Flag name Description -free Lists only logical volumes that are available for use as a backing device for virtual SCSI. -field Specifies the list of fields to display. The following fields are supported if no flags are specified: lvname Name of the logical volume. Logical volume names must be unique systemwide and can range from 1 to 15 characters. vgname Name of the volume group. Volume group names must be unique systemwide and can range from 1 to 15 characters. lvid Identifier of the logical volume. access Access permission: read-only or read-write. vgstate State of the volume group. If the volume group is activated with the  command, the state is either active/complete (indicating all physical volumes are active) or active/partial (indicating all physical volumes are not active). If the volume group is not activated with the  command, the state is inactive.    lvstate State of the logical volume. The opened/stale status indicates the logical volume is open but contains physical partitions that are not current. Opened/syncd indicates the logical volume is open and synchronized. Closed indicates the logical volume has not been opened.  type Logical volume type.  wverify Write verify state of on or off.    mwc Mirror write consistency state of on or off.  maxlps Maximum number of logical partitions the logical volume can hold.  ppsize Size of each physical partition.    copies Number of physical partitions created for each logical partition when allocating.  spolicy Sequential or parallel scheduling policy.  lps Number of logical partitions currently in the logical volume.    pps Number of physical partitions currently in the logical volume.  stale Number of physical partitions in the logical volume that are not current. bbpolicy Bad block relocation policy.   inter Inter-physical allocation policy. intra Intra-physical allocation policy. ubound If the logical volume is super strict, upper bound is the maximum number of disks in a mirror copy.   relocatable Indicates whether the partitions can be relocated if a reorganization of partition allocation takes place. mount File system mount point for the logical volume, if applicable. label Specifies the label field for the logical volume.   separatepv The strictness value. Current state of allocation, strict, nonstrict, or superstrict. A strict allocation states that no copies for a logical partition are allocated on the same physical volume. If the allocation does not follow the strict criteria, it is called nonstrict. A nonstrict allocation states that at least one occurrence of two physical partitions belong to the same logical partition. A superstrict allocation states that no partition from one mirror copy may reside the same disk as another mirror copy.  serialio Serialization of overlapping IOs state of yes or no. If serialization is turned on (yes), then overlapping IOs are not allowed on a block range, and only a single IO in a block range is processed at any one time. Most applications, such as file systems and databases, perform serialization; therefore, serialization should be turned off (no). The default setting for new logical volumes is no.   The following fields are supported if the -pv flag is specified: pvname  Physical volume disk name copies  The following three fields:   The number of logical partitions containing at least one physical partition (no copies) on the physical volume The number of logical partitions containing at least two physical partitions (one copy) on the physical volume The number of logical partitions containing three physical partitions (two copies) on the physical volume inband  The percentage of physical partitions on the physical volume that belong to the logical volume and were allocated within the physical volume region specified by Intra-physical allocation policy.  dist The number of physical partitions allocated within each section of the physical volume: outer edge, outer middle, center, inner middle, and inner edge of the physical volume.    The following fields are supported if the -map flag is specified: lpnum  Logical partition number. pvname1  Physical volume name where the logical partition's first physical partition is located.  ppnum1  First physical partition number allocated to the logical partition. pvname2  Physical volume name where the logical partition's second physical partition (first copy) is located. ppnum2 Second physical partition number allocated to the logical partition.   The following fields are supported if the -free flag is specified: lvname  Logical partition number. size Physical volume name where the logical partition's first physical partition is located.  vgname Name of the volume group. Volume group names must be unique systemwide and can range from 1 to 15 characters. -fmt Specifies a delimiter character to separate output fields. -map Lists the following fields for each logical partition: LPs Logical partition number. PV1 Physical volume name where the logical partition's first physical partition is located. PP1 First physical partition number allocated to the logical partition. PV2 Physical volume name where the logical partition's second physical partition (first copy) is located. PP2 Second physical partition number allocated to the logical partition.  -pv Lists the following fields for each physical volume in the logical volume: PV Physical volume name. Copies The following three fields: The number of logical partitions containing at least one physical partition (no copies) on the physical volume The number of logical partitions containing at least two physical partitions (one copy) on the physical volume The number of logical partitions containing three physical partitions (two copies) on the physical volume In band The percentage of physical partitions on the physical volume that belong to the logical volume and were allocated within the physical volume region specified by Intra-physical allocation policy. Distribution The number of physical partitions allocated within each section of the physical volume: outer edge, outer middle, center, inner middle, and inner edge of the physical volume.    Exit Status See .   Examples To display information about logical volume lv03, type: lslv lv03 Information about logical volume lv03, its logical and physical partitions, and the volume group to which it belongs is displayed. To display information about logical volume lv03 by physical volume, type: lslv -pv lv03 The characteristics and status of lv03 are displayed, with the output arranged by physical volume. To display a list of logical volumes that can be used as backing devices, type: lslv -free The system displays the following message: LV NAME         SIZE(megabytes) VOLUME GROUP lv00            64              rootvg lv01            64              rootvg   To display only the type and volume group of logical volume hd6 and separate the data by a : (colon) , type: lslv hd6 -field type vgname -fmt : The system displays the following message: paging:rootvg        Related InformationThe  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 mklv command Purpose Creates a logical volume.   Syntax mklv [] [ LogicalVolume |  Prefix] [ Type] VolumeGroup Size [PhysicalVolume ... ]   Description The mklv command creates a new logical volume within the VolumeGroup.  If you specify one or more physical volumes with the PhysicalVolume parameter, only those physical volumes are available for allocating physical partitions; otherwise, all the physical volumes within the volume group are available. The allocation policy is to use a minimum number of physical volumes. The type parameter specifies the logical volume type. The standard types are jfs (journaled file systems), jfslog (journaled file system logs), jfs2 (enhanced journaled file system), jfs2log (enhanced journaled file system logs), and paging (paging spaces). You can define other logical volume types with this flag. You cannot create a striped logical volume of type boot. The default is jfs. The Size parameter specifies the minimum size the logical volume should be. When specifying Size the following conventions must be used: Size Minimum logical volume size ###M/m ### MB ###G/g ### GB   Flags Flag name Description -lv Specifies the logical volume name to use instead of using a system-generated name. Logical volume names must be unique system wide name, and can range from 1 to 15 characters.  -mirror Activates mirroring for this logical volume. -prefix Specifies the Prefix to use instead of the prefix in a system-generated name for the new logical volume. The prefix must be less than or equal to 13 characters. The name cannot begin with a prefix already defined in the PdDv class in the Device Configuration Database for other devices, nor be a name already used by another device. -type Sets the logical volume type.   Exit Status See .   Examples To make a logical volume in volume group vg02 with a minimum size of 1 Mb , type the following command: mklv vg02 1M To make a logical volume in volume group vg03 with 1GB chosen from physical volumes hdisk5, hdisk6, and hdisk9, type the following command: mklv vg03 1G hdisk5 hdisk6 hdisk9 To request a logical volume with a minimum size of 10MB, type the following command: mklv VGNAME 10m where VGNAME is the name of your logical volume. To make a logical volume in volume group vg04 with a minimum size of 10 Mb whose type is paging, type the following command:mklv -lv lv01 -type paging vg04 10M The system displays output as follows: lv01   Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 mklvcopy command Purpose Creates a mirror of a logical volume.   Syntax mklvcopy LogicalVolume [ PhysicalVolume ... ]    Description The mklvcopy command creates a mirror (an additional copy) of a LogicalVolume. The LogicalVolume parameter can be a logical volume name or logical volume ID. You can request that the new copy of the logical volume be allocated on specific physical volumes (within the volume group) with the PhysicalVolume parameter; otherwise, all the physical volumes within the volume group are available for allocation. The new copy of the logical volume will be placed on a separate physical volume.   Only one additional copy of a logical volume can be created.   Exit Status See .   Examples To create a copy of the logical volume lv01, so that a total of two copies exist, type: mklvcopy lv01     Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 rmlv command Purpose Removes logical volumes from a volume group.   Syntax rmlv [  ]  LogicalVolume ...   Description The rmlv command removes a logical volume. The LogicalVolume parameter can be a logical volume name or logical volume ID.   This command destroys all data in the specified logical volumes.   Flags Flag name Description -f Removes the logical volumes without requesting confirmation.   Exit Status See .   Examples To remove logical volume lv05 without requiring user confirmation, enter the following command: rmlv -f lv05 The logical volume is removed from the volume group.   Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 rmlvcopy command Purpose Removes a copy of a logical volume.   Syntax rmlvcopy LogicalVolume [ PhysicalVolume ... ]   DescriptionThe rmlvcopy command removes one of the copies (disabling mirroring) of the logical volume. The LogicalVolume parameter can be a logical volume name or logical volume ID. The PhysicalVolume parameter can be the physical volume name or the physical volume ID. If the PhysicalVolume parameter is used, then only the copy from that physical volume will be removed.  If the LVM (Logical Volume Manager) has not recognized that a disk has failed, it is possible that the LVM will remove a different mirror. Therefore, if you know that a disk has failed and the LVM does not show those disks as missing, you should specify the failed disks on the command line.   Exit Status See .   ExamplesTo remove mirroring from the logical volume lv0112, type: rmlvcopy lv0112 Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Network commands Commands related to configuring and managing networking technologies, like , Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), and TCP/IP for the . Parent topic:          
 cfglnagg command Purpose Add or remove adapters from a Link Aggregation or change Link Aggregation attributes.   Syntax cfglnagg { [] | } [ ParentName] LinkAggregation Adapter  cfglnagg  [ ] [ ParentName]  Attribute=NewValue ... LinkAggregation  cfglnagg   [ ParentName] LinkAggregation    Description This command adds adapters to a Link Aggregation or removes adapters from a Link Aggregation. This command can also be used to modify Link Aggregation attributes. It is not necessary to detach the Link Aggregation's interface to add or remove adapters or modify most Link Aggregation attributes.    Changing the use_jumbo_frame attribute requires the Link Aggregation to be detached.  If this attribute is specified, the cfglnagg command detaches the Link Aggregation before modifying the use_jumbo_frame attributes, then brings the Link Aggregation back up. The user is prompted to continue unless the -f flags is specified.  Use the lsdev command with the -attr flag to view all attributes associated with a Link Aggregation device, including adapters. The failover occurs only if the adapter in the idle channel is up. If the adapter in the idle channel is down,  the Link Aggregation operates on the active one and no failover occurs.   Flags Flag name Description -add Adds the specified Adapter to the specified Link Aggregation. If the adapter must be added as a backup adapter, the -backup flag must be specified. -attr Changes the value of the LinkAggregation attribute to the NewValue attribute. -backup Specifies that the Adapter is being added as a backup adapter.  -f Instructs the command not to prompt you. -failover Forces a failover of the specified Link Aggregation. -parent Specifies the name of the parent adapter (for example, SEA). -rm Deletes the specified Adapter from the specified Link Aggregation. The specified adapter can be either a primary or backup adapter.   Parameters Parameter Description Adapter Specifies the adapter to add or delete. LinkAggregation Specifies the Link Aggregation. ParentName Specifies the parent name of the Link Aggregation adapter.   Exit Status See .   Examples To add adapter ent8 to Link Aggregation ent3, type the following command:  cfglnagg -add ent3 ent8 To force a failover of the Link Aggregation adapter ent7 from the currently active channel to the idle channel, type the following command:cfglnagg -failover ent7   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 cfgnamesrv command Purpose Directly manipulates domain name server entries for local resolver routines in the system configuration database.   Syntax To Add a Name Server Entry   cfgnamesrv  {  IPAddress |  DomainName |  SearchList}  To Delete a Name Server Entry  cfgnamesrv  {  IPAddress |  | }  To Change a Name Server Entry  cfgnamesrv  DomainName  To Display a Name Server Entry  cfgnamesrv  [   |  |    ]  To Create the Configuration Database File  cfgnamesrv  [   IPAddress [   DomainName ] [   ] ]  To Change a Search List Entry  cfgnamesrv  SearchList   Description The cfgnamesrv command adds or deletes domain name server entries for local resolver routines in the system configuration database. To add a name server entry, specify an Internet Protocol address and, optionally, a domain name.  The cfgnamesrv command can show one or all domain name server entries in the system configuration database. There are three types of domain name server entries: A domain entry identifying the name of the local Internet domain.  A name server entry that identifies the Internet address of a domain name server for the local domain. The address must be in dotted decimal format.  A search list entry that lists all the domains to search when resolving hostnames. This is a space delimited list.  One domain entry and a maximum of three name server entries can exist in the system configuration database. One search entry can exist.   Flags Flag name Description -add Adds an entry to the system configuration database. -ch DomainName Changes the domain name in the system configuration database. -chslist Changes the search list. -dname Indicates that the command deals with the domain name entry. -domain Specifies that the operation is on the domain name. Use this flag with the -rm flag and the -ls flag. -ipaddr IPAddress Indicates that the command deals with a name server entry. Use dotted decimal format for the given IP address. -ls Shows all domain and name server entries in the configuration system database. If you use the -ipaddr flag, the cfgnamesrv command shows all name server entries. If you use the -domain flag, the cfgnamesrv command shows the domain name entry found in the database. -mk Creates the system configuration database. -namesrv Specifies that the -ls flag should print all name server entries. -rm Deletes an entry in the system configuration database. It must be used with the -ipaddr IPAddress flag or the -domain flag. The -ipaddr flag deletes a name server entry. The -domain flag deletes the domain name entry. -slist Specifies that the operation is on the search list. Use this flag with the -rm and -ls flag. -slist SearchList Changes the search list in the system configuration database.   Exit Status See .   Examples To add a domain entry with a domain name of abc.aus.century.com, type: cfgnamesrv -add -dname abc.aus.century.com   To add a name server entry with IP address 192.9.201.1, type: cfgnamesrv  -add  -ipaddr 192.9.201.1     To show all system configuration database entries related to domain name server information used by local resolver routines, type:  cfgnamesrv  -ls  The output is given in the following format: domain xyz.aus.century.com name server 192.9.201.1    To set the search list abc.aus.century.com xyz.aus.century.com, type: cfgnamesrv -chslist abc.aus.century.com xyz.aus.century.com  	    The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 cl_snmp command Purpose Issues Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) requests to agents and processes SNMP responses returned by agents.    Syntax cl_snmp [][ Level] [ TargetHost] [ TimeoutValue] [ RetryNumber] [ MaxRepetitions] [ ConfigurationFile] [ PortNumber] [ ] [ NonRepeaters] Function [MIBvariable][VariableType][Value][...]]    Description Use the cl_snmp command to issue SNMP requests to agents and to process SNMP responses returned by agents. The  cl_snmp command can be used for SNMPv1, SNMPv2c, and SNMPv3 requests.   Flags Flag name Description -com  Specifies the community name used to access the specified variables at the destination SNMP agent. If you do not specify a community name, the default name is public. Community names are not required when using the user-based security model.   Community names are case sensitive. -debug Level  Specifies a debugging level during run time. The default is 0. The higher the debugging level, the greater the number of messages that are displayed. The levels can be from 0 through 4. -host TargetHost   Specifies the target host to which you want to send a request. This can be an Internet protocol address, a host name, or a winSNMP name in the clsnmp.conf configuration file. If you do not specify a host, the default is the local host. -timeout TimeoutValue  Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) that the cl_snmp command waits for a reply from the SNMP agent. The default is 3. -retry RetryNumber  Specifies the maximum number of times to retry the command if it timed out. The default is 2. -max MaxRepetitions   Specifies the number of lexicographic successors to be returned for each variable binding pair after the first -non number successors. The parameter applies only to the getbulk request. This is ignored if the function request is not a getbulk request. For example, starting with successor -non number+1, return -max number of successors for each variable binding pair. The default is 10.  -file ConfigurationFile Specifies the full path and file name of the configuration file. -port PortNumber Specifies the number of the port that listens for traps. If a port number is not specified, the cl_snmp trap function listens on the well-known port 162, which is the default port for cl_snmp traps. -verbose  Specifies that the output from a request should be displayed using verbose output, for example, using the textual name instead of the MIB object identifier. -non NonRepeaters Specifies the number of variable binding pairs (name/value), starting with the first, for which only a single successor is returned. This parameter applies only to getbulk requests. This is ignored if the function request is not a getbulk request. The default is 0. Function [MIBvariable] [VariableType] [Value] [...]] Specifies the SNMP function or operation to perform, which is one of the following:  get  getnext getbulk  set  walk trap findname  MIBVariable  Specifies the Management Information Base (MIB) object, using its object descriptor (textual name), object identifier in ASN.1         notation, or a combination of the two. When used with the walk function, this is the MIB object prefix. A prefix can be any leading portion of  the complete object identifier. When used with the findname command, this object identifier is in the ASN.1 notation. Value Specifies the value to be set by the SET function. If white space is needed in the value, enclose the value in quotation marks. To set a variable to a value that is also a type, you must specify the type. VariableType Specifies the type of value being set. To complete an SNMP SET request, the SMI_type must be known. If no type is specified,             cl_snmp command searches first the /etc/mib.defs file and then the compiled MIB to determine the type. If the variable is not found, an error is returned. If a VariableType is specified, the VariableType  takes precedence over any type that may be assigned in the MIB. The VariableType and value must be compatible. For example, if you specify a type of number and a value of foo, an error is  returned because foo is not a number. VariableType is not case sensitive. Valid variable types are:       bitstring   counter counter32  counter64    display or displaystring  gauge gauge32  integer  integer32     ipaddress   nsapaddress    null    objectidentifier or OID     octetstring   opaque   opaqueascii   timeticks    uinteger             Request Types Request Type name Description findname  Sends a request that a search be done to obtain the textual name, for a given MIBVariable input, whose internal ASN.1 value best matches the input ASN.1 value. The search first checks the  /etc/mib.defs file, and if a matching textual name is not found, it continues with the compiled management information base (MIB). Only one MIBVariable is allowed per cl_snmp findname invocation. get   Sends a request to an SNMP agent for a specific MIB variable. The cl_snmp command then waits for a response or times out. getbulk  Obtains the value of the variables in the MIB tree specified by the object identifier (OID) or MIB variable name. A single getbulk performs the same function as a series of getnext commands, with fewer data exchanges between the cl_snmp command and the SNMP agent. getnext  Sends a request to an SNMP agent for the next MIB variable that lexicographically follows the MIBVariable specified. The cl_snmp command then waits for a response or times out. set  Sends a request to an SNMP agent to set a specific MIBVariable.  The cl_snmp command then waits for a response or times out. trap Listens for SNMP traps and displays trap information when they occur. Uses the default, well-known port 162 or the port number specified on the -port option. The cl_snmp trap function continues to listen for traps until the process is killed or canceled. walk Issues a getnext request for a specified prefix, then continues to issue getnext requests for as long as there are variables that match the specified prefix. A prefix can be any leading portion of the complete object identifier.   Exit Status See .   Examples To issue an SNMP request, run the following command: cl_snmp -host hostname get sysName.0   Related Information The  command and  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 entstat command Purpose Shows Ethernet device driver and device statistics.   Syntax entstat [ -all ] [ -reset ] Device_Name   Description The entstat command displays the statistics gathered by the specified Ethernet device driver. The user can optionally specify that the device-specific statistics be displayed in addition to the device generic statistics. If no flags are specified, only the device generic statistics are displayed.   Flags Flag name Description -all Displays all the statistics, including the device-specific statistics. -reset Resets all the statistics back to their initial values.   Parameters Parameter name Description Device_name The name of the Ethernet device, for example, ent0.   Exit Status The statistic fields displayed in the output of the entstat command and their descriptions are as follows.  Some adapters may not support a specific statistic. The value of non-supported statistic fields is always 0.   Title Fields 	Field name Description Device Type Displays the description of the adapter type. Hardware Address Displays the Ethernet network address currently used 	by the device. Elapsed Time Displays the real time period which has elapsed since 	last time the statistics were reset. Part of the statistics may be reset by 	the device driver during error recovery when a hardware error is detected. 	There will be another Elapsed Time displayed in the middle of the output when 	this situation has occurred in order to reflect the time differences between 	the statistics.  	 Transmit Statistics Fields 	Field name Description Packets  The number of packets transmitted successfully by the 	device. Bytes The number of bytes transmitted successfully by the 	device. Interrupts The number of transmit interrupts received by the driver 	from the adapter. Transmit Errors  The number of output errors encountered on this device. 	This is a counter for unsuccessful transmissions due to hardware or network 	errors. Packets Dropped  The number of packets accepted by the device driver 	for transmission which were not (for any reason) given to the device. Max Packets on S/W Transmit Queue  The maximum number of outgoing packets ever queued to 	the software transmit queue. S/W Transmit Queue Overflow  The number of outgoing packets which have overflowed 	the software transmit queue. Current S/W+H/W Transmit Queue Length The number of pending outgoing packets on either the 	software transmit queue or the hardware transmit queue. Broadcast Packets The number of broadcast packets transmitted without 	any error. Multicast Packets  The number of multicast packets transmitted without 	any error. No Carrier Sense  The number of unsuccessful transmissions due to the 	no carrier sense error. DMA Underrun The number of unsuccessful transmissions due to the 	DMA underrun error. Lost CTS Errors  The number of unsuccessful transmissions due to the 	loss of the Clear-to-Send signal error. Max Collision Errors The number of unsuccessful transmissions due to too 	many collisions. The number of collisions encountered exceeded the number 	of retries on the adapter. Late Collision Errors  The number of unsuccessful transmissions due to the 	late collision error. Deferred The number of outgoing packets deferred during transmission. 	Deferred means that the adapter had to defer while trying to transmit a frame. 	This condition occurs if the network is busy when the adapter is ready to 	transmit. The adapter will only defer the first attempt to send a packet. 	After that the adapter will transmit the packet without checking. If the network 	is still busy then a collision will be recorded. SQE Test Contains the number of "Signal Quality Error" Tests 	(i.e. Heartbeat) performed successfully during transmission. Timeout Errors The number of unsuccessful transmissions due to adapter 	reported timeout errors. Single Collision Count The number of outgoing packets with single (only one) 	collision encountered during transmission. Multiple Collision Count The number of outgoing packets with multiple (2 - 15) 	collisions encountered during transmission Current HW Transmit Queue Length  The number of outgoing packets which currently exist 	on the hardware transmit queue. CRC Errors The number of incoming packets with the Checksum (FCS) 	error. DMA Overrun The number of incoming packets with the DMA overrun 	error. Alignment Errors  The number of incoming packets with the alignment error. No Resource Errors  The number of incoming packets dropped by the hardware 	due to the no resource error. This error usually occurs because the receive 	buffers on the adapter were exhausted. Some adapters may have the size of 	the receive buffers as a configurable parameter. Check the device configuration 	attributes for possible tuning information. Receive Collision Errors  The number of incoming packets with the collision errors 	during the reception. Packet Too Short Errors The number of incoming packets with the length error 	indicating that the packet size is less than the Ethernet minimum packet size. Packet Too Long Errors  The number of incoming packets with the length error 	indicating that the packet size is bigger than the Ethernet maximum packet 	size. Packets Discarded by Adapter  The number of incoming packets dropped by the hardware 	for any other reasons. Receiver Start Count The number of times that the receiver (receive unit) 	on the adapter has been started.  	 Receive Statistics Fields			 			Field name Description Packets 							 The number of packets received successfully by the 								device. Bytes The number of bytes received successfully by the 								device. Interrupts The number of receive interrupts received by the 								driver from the adapter. Receive Errors  The number of input errors encountered on the 								device. This is a counter for unsuccessful reception due to 								hardware/network errors. Packets Dropped  The number of packets received by the device 								driver from this device which were not (for any reason) given to a 								network demuxer. Bad Packets The number of bad packets received (i.e. saved) by 								the device driver. Broadcast Packets 							 The number of broadcast packets received without 								any error. Multicast Packets The number of multicast packets received without 								any error. CRC Errors The number of incoming packets with the Checksum 								(FCS) error. DMA Overrun The number of incoming packets with the DMA 								overrun error. Alignment Errors  The number of incoming packets with the alignment 								error. No Resource Errors The number of incoming packets dropped by the 								hardware due to the no resource error. Receive Collision Errors  The number of incoming packets with the collision 								errors during the reception. Packet Too Short Errors The number of incoming packets with the length 								error indicating that the packet size is less than the Ethernet 								minimum packet size. Packet Too Long Errors The number of incoming packets with the length 								error indicating that the packet size is bigger than the Ethernet 								maximum packet size. Packets Discarded by Adapter The number of incoming packets dropped by the 								hardware for any other reasons. Receiver Start Count The number of times that the receiver (receive 								unit) on the adapter has been started. 		 General Statistics Fields			 			Field name Description No mbuf Errors The number of times that mbufs were not available 								to the device driver. This usually occurs during receive operations 								when the driver must obtain mbuf buffers to process inbound packets. 								If the mbuf pool for the requested size is empty, the packet will be 								discarded. The netstat -m command can be used to confirm 								this. Adapter Reset Count The number of times that the adapter has been 								restarted (re-initialized). Adapter Data Rate The maximum data rate of the adapter in Mbps 								(megabits per second). Driver Flags The device driver internal status flags that are 								currently turned on. 		 Device Specific Statistics Fields			 			This part of the display might be different for each type of adapter. It might 				contain adapter-specific information and extended statistics that were not included 				in the general statistics. Some adapters might not have any device-specific 				statistics. 			 Receive Address Match Errors statistic of devices might increase, when the adapter 				receives a unicast packet with a destination MAC address that does not match the MAC 				address of the adapter. This scenario might happen when an adapter is used by a 					 to bridge network 				traffic for client LPARs. 		 Examples To display the device generic statistics for ent0, type: entstat ent0 This produces output similar to the following: ETHERNET STATISTICS (ent0) : Device Type: Ethernet High Performance LAN Adapter Hardware Address: 02:60:8c:2e:d0:1d Elapsed Time: 0 days 0 hours 8 minutes 41 seconds   Transmit Statistics:     Receive Statistics: --------------------     ------------------- Packets: 3               Packets: 2 Bytes: 272               Bytes: 146 Interrupts: 3            Interrupts: 2 Transmit Errors: 0       Receive Errors: 0 Packets Dropped: 0       Packets Dropped: 0 Max Packets on S/W       Bad Packets: 0 Transmit Queue:0          S/W Transmit Queue        Overflow: 0               Current S/W+H/W Transmit Queue Length: 0   Broadcast Packets: 2     CRC Errors: 0  Multicast Packets: 0     Broadcast Packets: 1 No Carrier Sense: 0      Multicast Packets: 0 DMA Underrun: 0          DMA Overrun: 0 Lost CTS Errors: 0       Alignment Errors: 0 Max Collision Errors: 0  No Resource Errors: 0 Late Collision Errors: 0 Receive Collision Errors: 0 Deferred: 0              Packet Too Short Errors: 0 SQE Test: 0              Packet Too Long Errors: 0 Timeout Errors: 0        Packets Discarded by Adapter: 0 Single Collision         Receiver Start Count: 1 Count: 0 Multiple Collision Count: 0 Current HW Transmit Queue Length: 0   General Statistics: ------------------- No mbuf Errors: 0 Adapter Reset Count: 0 Driver Flags: Up Broadcast Running Simplex   To display the Ethernet device-generic statistics and the Ethernet device-specific statistics for ent0, type: entstat -all ent0 Results similar to the following will be displayed: ETHERNET STATISTICS (ent0) : Device Type: Ethernet High Performance LAN Adapter Hardware Address: 02:60:8c:2e:d0:1d Elapsed Time: 0 days 2 hours 6 minutes 30 seconds   Transmit Statistics:      Receive Statistics: --------------------      ------------------- Packets: 3                Packets: 2 Bytes: 272                Bytes: 146 Interrupts: 3             Interrupts: 2 Transmit Errors: 0        Receive Errors: 0 Packets Dropped: 0        Packets Dropped: 0 Max Packets on S/W        Receiver Start Count: 1 Transmit Queue:0  Bad Packets: 0 S/W Transmit Queue Overflow: 0 Current S/W+H/W Transmit Queue Length: 0   Broadcast Packets: 0      Broadcast Packets: 0 Multicast Packets: 0      Multicast Packets: 0 No Carrier Sense: 0       CRC Errors: 0 DMA Underrun: 0           DMA Overrun: 0 Lost CTS Errors: 0        Alignment Errors: 0 Max Collision Errors: 0   No Resource Errors: 0 Late Collision Errors: 0  Receive Collision Errors: 0 Deferred: 0               Packet Too Short Errors: 0 SQE Test: 0               Packet Too Long Errors: 0 Timeout Errors: 0         Packets Discarded by Adapter: 0 Single Collision Count: 0 Receiver Start Count: 1 Multiple Collision Count: 0 Current HW Transmit Queue Length: 0   General Statistics: ------------------- No mbuf Errors: 0 Adapter Reset Count: 0 Driver Flags: Up Broadcast Running Simplex    Ethernet High Performance LAN Adapter Specific Statistics: ---------------------------------------------------------- Receive Buffer Pool Size: 37 Transmit Buffer Pool Size: 39 In Promiscuous Mode for IP Multicast: No Packets Uploaded from Adapter: 0 Host End-of-List Encountered: 0 82586 End-of-List Encountered: 0 Receive DMA Timeouts: 0 Adapter Internal Data: 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x0     Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lsnetsvc command Purpose Displays the status of a network service.   Syntax lsnetsvc NetworkService   Description The lsnetsvc command displays the status of a network service. Use the NetworkService parameter to specify which service should have its status displayed.   Parameters Parameter name Description NetworkService Specify on the following values: cimserver Returns the status of the cimserver daemon. inetd Returns the status of the inetd subsystem. The inetd subsystem must be in the active state for the telnet and ftp daemons to be active. If the inetd subsystem is in the inoperative state, when you start the startnetsvc command with any of the supported network services it reactivates the inetd subsystem. ssh Returns the status of the ssh daemon. telnet Returns the status of the telnet daemon. ftp Returns the status of the ftp daemon. xntpd Returns the status of the xntpd daemon.   Exit Status Return Value Description 9 Invalid network service   Examples To list the status of the inetd subsystem, type: lsnetsvc inetd This command will return either active or not active. To list the status of the telnet daemon, type: lsnetsvc telnet This command will return either active or not active. To list the status of the ftp daemon, enter:  lsnetsvc ftp  This command will return either active or not active.   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lstcpip command Purpose Displays the  TCP/IP settings and parameters.   Syntax lstcpip [-interfaces ] [-fmt delimiter]  lstcpip ] [] [-field] [-fmt delimiter]  lstcpip [] [] [] [] []    lstcpip    lstcpip     lstcpip [] [ {inet | inet6 | unix}]    lstcpip   lstcpip [ -state [ -field FieldName ...] ] | [ -routtable [ -field FieldName ... ]] [ -fmt delimter ]  lstcpip     If IPv6 is configured on the Virtual I/O Server, the lstcpip command lists an IPv6 address. Due to its size, the IPv6 address spans both the Network and Address fields of the output screen.   Description The lstcpip command displays the current and stored TCP/IP setting such as IP address, routing table, sockets, name server settings, and so forth.   Flags Flag name Description -adapters Lists Ethernet adapters on the system. -arp Displays the current ARP table entries. -family Specifies the INET, INET6, or UNIX socket family. -field Specifies a list of fields to display. -fmt Divides output by a user-specified delimiter. -hostname Displays the system hostname. -interfaces Displays all of the interfaces configured on the system. Specifically, it displays their addresses, network masks, states, and mac addresses.  -namesrv Lists DNS name servers in search order and domain name. -num Displays numeric output, rather than trying to resolve host names. -routtable Displays the routing tables. -routinfo Displays the routing tables, including the user-configured and current costs of each route. -sockets Displays information about currently open sockets. -state Displays the current state of all configured interfaces. -stored Displays stored TCP/IP configuration, which will be applied when the system starts. It will list interface IP addresses, any defined static routes, host names, and DNS info.   Examples To list the  TCP/IP configuration, type:  lstcpip -stored To list the current routing table, type: 	 lstcpip -routtable   To list open inet sockets, type: 	 lstcpip -sockets -family inet To display the state of all interfaces using a delimiter, type: lstcpip -state -fmt “/” This command produces output similar to the following: sit0/1480/link#2/9.3.126.60/0/0/0/0/0 sit0/1480/commo126060./austin.ixx.com/0/0/0/0/0 en2/1500/link#3/0.9.6b.6e.e3.72/871825/0/16305/1/0 en2/1500/9.3.126/commo126060.austi/871825/0/16305/1/0 en2/1500/fe80::209:6bff:fe6e:e372/871825/0/16305/1/0 lo0/16896/link#1/5013/0/5019/0/0 lo0/16896/127/localhost/5013/0/5019/0/0 lo0/16896/::1/5013/0/5019/0/0 To display all interface information, type: lstcpip -interfaces This command produces output similar to the following: Name    Address                     mask/Pfx       State     MAC en2     fe80::209:6bff:fe6e:e372    64            up        00:09:6b:6e:e3:72 en3     -                           -             down      00:09:6b:6e:e3:73 et2     -                           -             down      00:09:6b:6e:e3:72 et3     -                           -             down      00:09:6b:6e:e3:73 en4     -                           -             down      0e:f0:c0:00:30:04   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 optimizenet command Purpose Manages network tuning parameters.   Syntax optimizenet  [  |  ] {   Tunable[=NewValue] |  Tunable }   optimizenet  [ Tunable ]   optimizenet  [ Tunable ]   Description The optimizenet command is used to configure network tuning parameters. The optimizenet command sets or displays current or next boot values for network tuning parameters. This command can also make permanent changes or defer changes until the next reboot. Whether the command sets or displays a parameter is determined by the accompanying flag. The -set flag performs both actions. It can either display the value of a parameter or set a new value for a parameter.  If the -list flag is specified without any Tunables, only Tunables modifiable by this command will be displayed.   Flags Flag name Description -default Tunable Resets Tunable to its default value. If the Tunable needs to be changed (not currently set to its default value) and it is of type Reboot, it will not be changed; a warning displays instead. -h Tunable Displays help about Tunable parameter if one is specified.  -list [Tunable] Lists the characteristics of one or all Tunables, one per line, using the following format:   NAME                      CUR DEF BOOT MIN MAX  UNIT     TYPE     DEPENDENCIES  ------------------------------------------------------------------ General Network Parameters  -----------------------------------------------------------------  sockthresh                85  85  85   0   100  %_of_thewall D  -----------------------------------------------------------------  fasttimo                  200 200 200  50  200  millisecond  D  -----------------------------------------------------------------  inet_stack_size           16  16  16   1        kbyte        R  -----------------------------------------------------------------  where CUR  current value  DEF  default value  BOOT reboot value  MIN minimal value MAX maximum value  UNIT tunable unit of measure  TYPE Parameter type: D (Dynamic), S (Static), R (Reboot), B (Bosboot), M (Mount), I (Incremental), and C (Connect)  DEPENDENCIES List of dependent tunable parameters, one per line -perm Makes changes apply to both current and reboot values when used in combination with -set or -default. These combinations cannot be used on Reboot type parameters because their current value can't be changed. When used with -set without specifying a new value, values displays only if the current and next boot values for a parameter are the same. Otherwise NONE displays as the value. -reboot Makes changes apply to reboot values when used in combination with -set or -default. When used with -set without specifying a new value, next boot values for tunables display instead of the current values. -set Tunable [=NewValue ] Displays the value or sets the Tunable to NewValue. If a tunable needs to be changed (the specified value is different than current value), and is of type Reboot it will not be changed but a warning displays instead.  When -reboot is used in combination without a new value, the nextboot value for Tunable is displayed. When -perm is used in combination without a new value, a value displays only if the current and next boot values for tunable are the same Otherwise NONE displays as the value.   Network tunable parameters Parameter Description arptab_bsiz   Purpose: Specifies Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) table bucket size. Values:  Default: 7  Range: 1 to MAXSHORT  Type: Reboot Diagnosis netstat -protocol arp will show the number of ARP packets sent and the number of ARP entries purged from the ARP table. If large number of entries are being purged, the ARP table size should be increased.  arptab_nb  Purpose: Specifies the number of ARP table buckets. Values:  Default: 73 Range: 1 to MAXSHORT Type: Reboot Diagnosis: netstat -protocol arp will show the number of ARP packets sent and the number of ARP entries purged from the ARP table. If large number of entries are being purged, the ARP table size should be increased.   Increase this value for systems that have a large number of clients or servers. The default provides for 73 x 7 = 511 ARP entries, but assumes an even hash distribution.   clean_partial_conns  Purpose: Specifies whether or not SYN (synchronizes the sequence number) attacks are being avoided.  Values:  Default: 0 (off) Range: 0 or 1 Type: Dynamic Tuning: This option should be turned on for servers that need to protect against network attacks. If on, randomly removes partial connections to make room for new non-attack connections.  net_malloc_police  Purpose: Specifies the size of the net_malloc and net_free trace buffers.  Values:  Default: 0 Range: 0 to MAXINT Type: Dynamic Tuning: If the value of this variable is non-zero, all net_malloc and net_free buffers will be traced in a kernel buffer and by system trace hook HKWD_NET_MALLOC. Additional error-checking will also be enabled. This includes checks for freeing a free buffer, alignment, and buffer overwrite. Enable this parameter only when investigating some network problem, because performance is affected negatively when turned on. The default value is zero (policing off). Values of net_malloc_police larger than 1024 will allocate that many items in the kernel buffer for tracing.  rfc1323  Purpose: Enables window scaling and time stamps as specified by RFC 1323 (TCP Extensions for High Performance). Window scaling allows the TCP window sizes (tcp_recvspace and tcp_sendspace) to be larger than 64KB (65536) and is typically used for large MTU networks.  Values:  Default: 0 (off) Range: 0 or 1 Type: Connect Tuning: The default value of 0 disables the RFC enhancements on a systemwide scale. A value of 1 specifies that all TCP connections will attempt to negotiate the RFC enhancements. Make changes before attempting to set tcp_sendspace and tcp_recvspace to more than 64 KB.   route_expire  Purpose: Specifies whether unused routes created by cloning, or created and modified by redirects expire.  Values:  Default: 1 (on) Range: 0 or 1 Type: Dynamic Tuning: A value of 1 allows route expiration, which is the default. Negative values are not allowed for this option.   tcp_pmtu_discover  Purpose: Enables or disables path MTU discovery for TCP applications. Values:  Default: 1 Range: 0 or 1 Type: Dynamic Tuning: A value of 0 disables path MTU discovery for TCP applications, while a value of 1 enables it.  tcp_recvspace  Purpose: Specifies the system default socket buffer size for receiving data. This affects the window size used by TCP.  Values:  Default: 16384 bytes Range: 4096 to 1048576 Type: Connect Diagnosis: Setting the socket buffer size to 16 KB (16,384) improves performance over standard Ethernet and Token-Ring networks. Lower bandwidth networks, such as Serial Line Internet Protocol (SLIP), or higher bandwidth networks, such as Serial Optical Link, should have different optimum buffer sizes. The optimum buffer size is the product of the media bandwidth and the average round-trip time of a packet.  For high-speed networks, like gigabit Ethernet or ATM 622, a value of 65536 should be used for the minimum size for best performance. For values larger than 65536, you must enable rfc1323 (rfc1323=1) to enable TCP window scaling.  tcp_sendspace  Purpose: Specifies the system default socket buffer size for sending data.  Values:  Default: 16384 bytes Range: 4096 to 1048576 Type: Connect Tuning: This affects the window size used by TCP. Setting the socket buffer size to 16 KB (16,384) improves performance over standard Ethernet networks.  Lower bandwidth networks, such as Serial Line Internet Protocol (SLIP), or higher bandwidth networks, such as Serial Optical Link, should have different optimum buffer sizes. The optimum buffer size is the product of the media bandwidth and the average round-trip time of a packet:  (optimum_window=bandwidth * average_round_trip_time) For high-speed networks, like gigabit Ethernet or ATM 622, a value of 65536 should be used for the minimum size for best performance. For values larger than 65536, you must enable rfc1323 (rfc1323=1) to enable TCP window scaling. udp_recvspace  Purpose: Specifies the system default socket-buffer size for receiving UDP data.  Values:  Default: 42080 bytes Range: 4096 to 1048576 Type: Connect Diagnosis: Nonzero n in netstat -stats report of udp: n socket buffer overflows  Tuning: Increase size, preferably to multiple of 4096.   udp_sendspace  Purpose: Specifies the system default socket-buffer size for sending UDP data.  Values:  Default: 9216 bytes Range: 4096 to 1048576 Type: Connect Diagnosis: Increase size, preferably to multiple of 4096.     Exit Status See .   Examples To display the maximum size of the mbuf pool, type: optimizenet -set thewall   To change the default socket buffer sizes on your system, type:  optimizenet -reboot -set tcp_sendspace=32768 To use a machine as an internet work router over TCP/IP networks, type:  optimizenet -set ipforwarding=1     To list the current and reboot value, range, unit, type and dependencies of the arptab_bsiz parameter, type: optimizenet -list arptab_bsiz    To display help information on arptab_bsiz, type:   optimizenet -h arptab_bsiz      Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 ping command Purpose Sends an echo request to a network host.   Syntax ping [   ] [ ] [   PacketSize ] [  hostname/IP_addr ] Host [  Count ]   Description The ping command sends an Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) ECHO_REQUEST to obtain an ICMP ECHO_RESPONSE from a host or gateway. The ping command is useful for: Determining the status of the network and various foreign hosts. Tracking and isolating hardware and software problems. Testing, measuring, and managing networks.  If the host is operational and on the network, it responds to the echo. Each echo request contains an Internet Protocol (IP) and ICMP header, followed by a timeval structure, and enough bytes to fill out the packet. The default is to continuously send echo requests until an Interrupt is received (Ctrl-C).  The ping command sends one datagram per second and prints one line of output for every response received. The ping command calculates round-trip times and packet loss statistics, and displays a brief summary on completion. The ping command completes when the program times out or on receipt of a SIGINT signal. The Host parameter is either a valid host name or Internet address.  By default, the ping command will continue to send echo requests to the display until an Interrupt is received (Ctrl-C). Because of the load that continuous echo requests can place on the system, repeated requests should be used primarily for problem isolation.   Flags Flag name Description -n Specifies numeric output only. No attempt is made to look up symbolic names for host addresses. -r Bypasses the routing tables and sends directly to a host on an attached network. If the Host is not on a directly connected network, the ping command generates an error message. This option can be used to ping a local host through an interface that no longer has a route through it. -s PacketSize Specifies the number of data bytes to be sent. The default is 56, which translates into 64 ICMP data bytes when combined with the 8 bytes of ICMP header data. -src hostname/IP_addr Uses the IP address as the source address in outgoing ping packets. On hosts with more than one IP address, the -src flag can be used to force the source address to be something other than the IP address of the interface on which the packet is sent. If the IP address is not one of the machine's interface addresses, an error is returned and nothing is sent.   Parameters Parameter Description Count Specifies the number of echo requests to be sent (and received). This parameter is included for compatibility with previous versions of the ping command.   Exit Status See .   Examples To check the network connection to host canopus and specify the number of echo requests to send, enter: ping canopus 5 Information similar to the following is displayed:  PING canopus.austin.century.com: (128.116.1.5): 56 data bytes 64 bytes from 128.116.1.5: icmp_seq=0 ttl=255 time=2 ms 64 bytes from 128.116.1.5: icmp_seq=1 ttl=255 time=2 ms 64 bytes from 128.116.1.5: icmp_seq=2 ttl=255 time=3 ms 64 bytes from 128.116.1.5: icmp_seq=3 ttl=255 time=2 ms 64 bytes from 128.116.1.5: icmp_seq=4 ttl=255 time=2 ms ----canopus.austin.century.com PING Statistics---- 5 packets transmitted, 5 packets received, 0% packet loss round-trip min/avg/max = 2/2/3 ms     To obtain information about host opus and specify the number of data bytes to be sent, enter: ping -s 2000 opus Information similar to the following is displayed:  PING opus.austin.century.com: (129.35.34.234): 2000 data bytes 2008 bytes from 129.35.34.234: icmp_seq=0 ttl=255 time=20 ms 2008 bytes from 129.35.34.234: icmp_seq=1 ttl=255 time=19 ms 2008 bytes from 129.35.34.234: icmp_seq=2 ttl=255 time=20 ms 2008 bytes from 129.35.34.234: icmp_seq=3 ttl=255 time=20 ms 2008 bytes from 129.35.34.234: icmp_seq=4 ttl=255 time=20 ms 2008 bytes from 129.35.34.234: icmp_seq=5 ttl=255 time=19 ms 2008 bytes from 129.35.34.234: icmp_seq=6 ttl=255 time=19 ms ^C ----opus.austin.century.com PING Statistics---- 7 packets transmitted, 7 packets received, 0% packet loss round-trip min/avg/max = 19/19/20 ms   The output is repeated until an Interrupt (Ctrl-C) is received.     Related Information The  command and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 seastat command Purpose Generates a report to view, per client, Shared Ethernet Adapter statistics.   Syntax To display Shared Ethernet Adapter statistics, per client.  seastat  Shared Ethernet Adapter device name [ |  searchtype=value ]  To clear all Shared Ethernet Adapter statistics that have been gathered per client.  seastat  Shared Ethernet Adapter device name    DescriptionThe  command generates a report to view, per client, shared ethernet adapter statistics. To gather network statistics at a per-client level, advanced accounting can be enabled on the Shared Ethernet Adapter to provide more information about its network traffic. To enable per-client statistics, the VIOS administrator can set the Shared Ethernet Adapter accounting attribute to enabled. The default value is disabled. When advanced accounting is enabled, the Shared Ethernet Adapter keeps track of the hardware (MAC) addresses of all of the packets it receives from the LPAR clients, and increments packet and byte counts for each client independently. After advanced accounting is enabled on the Shared Ethernet Adapter, the VIOS administrator can generate a report to view per-client statistics by running the seastat command.    Advanced accounting must be enabled on the Shared Ethernet Adapter before the seastat command can print any statistics. To enable advanced accounting on the SEA, enter the following command:  chdev -dev <SEA device name> -attr accounting=enabled   FlagsFlag name Description -d Shared Ethernet Adapter device name Specifies the device name of the Shared Ethernet Adapter. -n  Disables name resolution on the IP addresses. -c  Clears all of the per client Shared Ethernet Adapter statistics that have been gathered. -s searchtype=value Searchs for a specified value.   Exit Status The following exit values are returned: Return code Description 0 Successful completion. >0 Invalid flag, argument, or command failure   Examples To display Shared Ethernet Adapter statistics for sea0, type: seastat -d sea0    To clear the Shared Ethernet Adapter statistics for sea0, type: seastat -d sea0 -c To search a MAC address, type:seastat -d entX -s mac=XXXXXX To search for a vlan, type:seastat -d entX -s vlan=<0 to 4094> Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 snmp_info command Purpose Requests or modifies values of Management Information Base (MIB) variables managed by a Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) agent.   Syntax snmp_info [ get | next] [] [ Community] [ Level] [ HostName] [ ObjectFile] [ Tries] [ ] Variable.Instance  The following syntax is for the set option:  snmp_info  set [] [ Community] [ Level] [ HostName] [ ObjectFile] [ Tries] [ ] Variable.Instance=Value  The following syntax is for the dump option:  snmp_info  dump [] [ Community] [ Level] [ HostName] [ ObjectFile] [ Tries] [ ] [Variable.Instance]   Description The  command requests or modifies values for one or more Management Information Base (MIB) variables managed by a Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) agent. This command may only be issued by a user with root privileges or by a member of the system group.   If you specify the get option, the  command requests information about one or more MIB variables from an SNMP agent.  If you specify the next option, the  command requests information from an SNMP agent about the instances following the specified instances. The next option makes it possible to obtain MIB values without knowledge of the instance qualifiers.   If you specify the set option, the  command modifies values for  one or more MIB variables for an SNMP agent. Only a few MIB variables are designated read-write. The agent that manages the MIB database may  take various actions as a side effect of modifying MIB variables. For example, setting the ifAdminStatus MIB variable to 2 will normally shut down a network interface. The action taken is determined by the implementation of the SNMP agent that manages the database.  If you specify the dump option, the  command can be used to traverse the entire MIB tree of a given agent. If a group is passed in as the Variable parameter, the  command will traverse that specified path of the MIB tree.  The  command has a debug facility that dumps the debug information for transmitted and received packets. The facility is enabled with the -debug flag.   Flags Flag name Description -com Community  Specifies the community name to be used to query. If you do not specify this flag, the default community name is public. -debug Level  Specifies the level of I/O debug information. Use one of the following values: 0 No debug information. 1 Port bindings and the number of bytes transmitted and received. 2 Level 1 plus a hexadecimal dump of incoming and outgoing packets. 3 Level 2 plus an English version of the request and response packets.  If you do not specify this flag, the default debug level is 0. -host HostName  Specifies the host name of the SNMP agent to be queried. If you do not specify this flag, the default host name is the host name of the system on which the user is currently logged. -file ObjectFile Specifies the name of the objects definition file. If you do not specify this flag, the default objects definition file name is /etc/mib.defs. -mode Option  Specifies the mode by which to access the MIB variables.  The value can be one of the following options: get Requests information about the specified MIB variables next Requests the instances following the specified instances set Modifies the specified write access MIB variables dump Dumps the specified section of the MIB tree    The option name can be specified by the minimum number of characters required to make it unique. If you do not specify this flag, the default mode is get. -retry Tries Specifies the number of times the  command transmits the SNMP request to the SNMP agent before ending with the message no SNMP response. If you do not specify this flag, the default number of tries is 3. -verbose  Specifies that the output from the  command be displayed in verbose mode. If you do not specify this flag, the information will not be displayed in verbose mode. -wait  Specifies the wait time in seconds for the response from the snmpd agent. If you do not specify this flag, the default wait time is 15 seconds.   Parameters Parameter Description Value Specifies the value to which the MIB Variable parameter is to be set. A value must be specified for each variable. If a value is not specified, the request packet will be invalid. Variable Specifies the name in text format or numeric format of a specific MIB variable as defined in the /etc/mib.defs file. If the option to the -mode flag is next or dump, the Variable parameter may be specified as a MIB group.  Instance Specifies the instance qualifier for the MIB Variable parameter.  The Instance parameter is required if the option to the -mode flag is  get or set. The Instance parameter is optional if the option to  the -mode flag is next or dump.   There should be no blank spaces in the Variable.Instance parameter sequence.  If the Instance parameter is not specified, do not place a period after the Variable parameter.  For further information, consult RFC 1213, which defines the Management Information Base (MIB) for network management, and RFC 1157, which defines the SNMP protocol for creating requests for MIB information and formatting responses.   Exit Status See .   Examples To display the current system information and snmp configuration information, type the following command: snmp_info -mode dump system   Related Information The  command and the  command.    Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 snmp_trap command Purpose The snmp_trap command generates a notification (trap) to report an event to the SNMP manager with the specified message.   Syntax snmp_trap   |       Description The snmp_trap command generates a notification (trap) to report an event to the SNMP manager with the specified message.   Flags Flag name Description -host HostName  Specifies to connect to the SNMP agent on the specified host. If you do not specify this flag, the default host is the local host. Host can be an IP address or a host name.  -com Community  Specifies the community name to use. This community must have been set  in the /etc/snmpdv3.conf file for SNMP version 3 file. You also have to have read-access privilege to at least the SNMP agent running on the specified host or local host. If you do not specify this flag, the default community name is "public". -debug  Enables the debug facility. -msg Message Defines the message that the  command will send. This value specifies the information the trap will hold. This information is in the text format. You must order this flag as the last one in the list when you specify this command. -target TargetHost Specifies the target network-manager host to which the trap message is sent. It is different from -host flag. If you do not specify the -host and -target flags, the trap is sent to the VIOS SNMP agent on the local host.   Exit Status See .   Examples To display the current system information and snmp configuration information, type the following command: snmp_trap -msg hello world   Related Information The  command and the  command.    Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 startnetsvc command Purpose Starts the telnet, ftp, xntpd, ssh,   or cimserver daemon.   Syntax startnetsvc  [NetworkService]   Description The startnetsvc command starts the telnet, ftp, xntpd, ssh,   or cimserver daemon.  By enabling the network service daemon, users can use that service to connect to the .    Parameters Parameter Description NetworkService Use the following values: ndpd-host Enables the ndpd-host daemon. telnet Enables the telnet daemon. ftp Enables the ftp daemon. xntpd Enables the xntpd daemon. ssh Enables the ssh daemon. snmp Enables the snmp daemon. ldap Enables the ldap daemon. cimserver Enables the cimserver daemon. ALL Enables all service daemons.  Specifying ALL starts all services, but does not enable the tracelog  or errorlog options.  TraceSelection Use the following values: tracelog Sends CLI tracing information to the system log.   Enabling the tracelog or errorlog can make the system log grow quickly. errorlog Sends system error log information to the system log.   Enabling the tracelog or errorlog can make the system log grow quickly.   A padmin user can use the vi command to view files sent to the system log.   Exit Status See .   Examples To start the telnet daemon, type the following command: startnetsvc telnet To start the ftp daemon, type the following command: startnetsvc ftp To start the tracelog option, type the following command: startnetsvc tracelog To start all service daemons, type the following command: startnetsvc ALL To start the ndpd-host daemon, type the following command: startnetsvc ndpd-host This command produces output similar to the following: 0513-059 The ndpd-host Subsystem has been started. Subsystem PID is 356522.   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 stopnetsvc command Purpose Disables the telnet, ftp, , ,   or  daemon.   Syntax stopnetsvc  [NetworkService]   Description The stopnetsvc command stops the telnet, ftp, xntpd, ssh,   or cimserver daemon.  By disabling a service daemon, users can prevent anyone from being able to connect through the associated network service. The tracelog or errorlog options stop sending CLI tracing information or system error log information to the system log.   Parameters Parameter Description NetworkService The following values can be used: ndpd-host Disables the ndpd-host daemon. telnet Disables the telnet daemon. ftp Disables the ftp daemon. xntpd Disables the xntpd daemon. ssh Disables the ssh daemon. snmp Disables the snmp daemon. ldap Disables the ldap daemon. cimserver Disables the cimserver daemon. ALL Disables all service daemons, but does not disable the tracelog  or errorlog option. TraceSelection The following values can be used: tracelog Stops sending CLI tracing information to the system log. errorlog Stops sending system error log information to the system log.   A padmin user can use the vi command to view files sent to the system log.   Exit Status See .   Examples To disable the telnet daemon, type the following command: stopnetsvc telnet To disable the ftp daemon, type the following command: stopnetsvc ftp To disable the ndpd-host daemon, type the following command: stopnetsvc ndpd-host This command produces output similar to the following: 0513-044 The /usr/sbin/ndpd-host Subsystem was requested to stop. To stop the tracelog option, type the following command: stopnetsvc tracelog To disable all service daemons, type the following command: stopnetsvc ALL   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 traceroute command Purpose Prints the route that IP packets take to a network host.   Syntax traceroute [  Hops ] [  ] [  Port ] [  Address ] Host [ PacketSize ]   Description The traceroute command attempts to trace the route an IP packet follows to an Internet host by launching UDP probe packets with a small maximum time-to-live (Hops parameter), then listening for an ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED response from gateways along the way. Probes are started with a Hops value of one hop, which is increased one hop at a time until an ICMP PORT_UNREACHABLE message is returned. The ICMP PORT_UNREACHABLE message indicates either that the host has been located or the command has reached the maximum number of hops allowed for the trace.  The traceroute command sends three probes at each Hops setting to record the following: Hops value Address of the gateway Round-trip time of each successful probe    If the probe answers come from different gateways, the command prints the address of each responding system. If there is no response from a probe within a 3-second time-out interval, an * (asterisk) is printed for that probe.   The traceroute command is intended for use in network testing, measurement, and management. It should be used primarily for manual fault isolation. Because of the load it imposes on the network, the traceroute command should not be used during normal operations or from automated scripts.  The traceroute command prints an ! (exclamation mark) after the round-trip time if the Hops value is one hop or less. A maximum time-to-live value of one hop or less generally indicates an incompatibility in the way ICMP replies are handled by different network software. The incompatibility can usually be resolved by doubling the last Hops value used and trying again.  Other possible annotations after the round-trip notation are as follows: !H Host unreachable !N Network unreachable !P Protocol unreachable !S Source route failed !F Fragmentation needed  If the majority of probes result in an error, the traceroute command exits.  The only mandatory parameter for the traceroute command is the destination host name or IP number. The traceroute command will determine the length of the probe packet based on the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the outgoing interface. The UDP probe packets are set to an unlikely value so as to prevent processing by the destination host.   Flags Flag name Description -hops Max_ttl Sets the maximum time-to-live (maximum number of hops) used in outgoing probe packets. The default is 30 hops (the same default used for TCP connections). -num Prints hop addresses numerically rather than symbolically and numerically. This flag saves a name-server address-to-name lookup for each gateway found on the path. -port Port Sets the base UDP port number used in probes. The default is 33434. The traceroute command depends on an open UDP port range of base to base + nhops - 1 at the destination host. If a UDP port is not available, this option can be used to pick an unused port range. -src SRC_Addr Uses the next IP address in numerical form as the source address in outgoing probe packets. On hosts with more than one IP address, the -src flag can be used to force the source address to be something other than the IP address of the interface on which the probe packet is sent. If the next IP address is not one of the machine's interface addresses, an error is returned and nothing is sent.   Parameters Parameter Description Host Specifies the destination host, either by host name or IP number. This parameter is required. PacketSize Specifies the probe datagram length. The default packet size is determined by the traceroute command based on the MTU of the outgoing interface.   Exit Status See .   Examples To print the route to host nis.nfs.net, type: traceroute nis.nsf.net The output will look similar to the following: traceroute to rotterdam (35.1.1.48), 30 hops max, 56 byte packet 1 helios.ee.lbl.gov (128.3.112.1) 19 ms 19 ms 0 ms 2 lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1) 39 ms 39 ms 19 ms 3 lilac-dmc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.216.1) 39 ms 39 ms 19 ms 4 ccngw-ner-cc.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.136.23) 39 ms 40 ms 39 ms 5 ccn-nerif22.Berkeley.EDU (128.32.168.22) 39 ms 39 ms 39 ms 6 128.32.197.4 (128.32.197.4) 40 ms 59 ms 59 ms 7 131.119.2.5 (131.119.2.5) 59 ms 59 ms 59 ms 8 129.140.70.13 (129.140.70.13) 99 ms 99 ms 80 ms 9 129.140.71.6 (129.140.71.6) 139 ms 239 ms 319 ms 10 129.140.81.7 (129.140.81.7) 220 ms 199 ms 199 ms 11 nic.merit.edu (35.1.1.48) 239 ms 239 ms 239 ms   Related Information The  command and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Physical volume commands Commands related to managing physical volumes for the . Parent topic:          
 migratepv command Purpose Moves allocated physical partitions from one physical volume to one or more other physical volumes.   Syntax migratepv [  LogicalVolume] SourcePhysicalVolume DestinationPhysicalVolume ...   Description The migratepv command moves allocated physical partitions and the data they contain from the SourcePhysicalVolume to one or more other physical volumes, DestinationPhysicalVolume.  All physical volumes must be within the same volume group. The specified source physical volume cannot be included in the list of DestinationPhysicalVolume parameters.   The allocation of the new physical partitions follows the policies defined for the logical volumes that contain the physical partitions being moved.  If you specify a logical volume that contains the boot image, the migratepv -lv command attempts to find enough contiguous partitions on one of the target physical volumes. If the migration is successful, the migratepv command will indicate a change in the boot device as well as the new boot physical volume. The attempted migration fails if the migratepv -lv command is unable to find enough contiguous space to satisfy the request.   All logical volume manager migration functions work by creating a mirror of the logical volumes involved, then resynchronizing the logical volumes. The original logical volume is then removed. If the migratepv command is used to move a logical volume containing the primary dump device, the system will not have an accessible primary dump device during the execution of the command. Therefore, a dump taken during this execution may fail.   Flags Flag name Description -lv Moves only the physical partitions allocated to the specified logical volume and located on the specified source physical volume.   Exit Status Return code Description 8 The physical volume is not assigned to a volume group   Examples To move physical partitions from hdisk1 to hdisk6 and hdisk7, type: migratepv hdisk1 hdisk6 hdisk7 Physical partitions are moved from one physical volume to two others within the same volume group. To move physical partitions in logical volume lv02 from hdisk1 to hdisk6, type: migratepv -lv lv02 hdisk1 hdisk6 Only those physical partitions contained in lv02 are moved from one physical volume to another.   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Runtime Expert commands Commands related to the runtime expert for the  Parent topic:          
 Security commands Commands related to managing security for the . Parent topic:          
 lsfailedlogin command Purpose Lists the contents of the failed login log to the screen.   Syntax lsfailedlogin   Description The lsfailedlogin command dumps the contents of the failed login log. The failed login file records unsuccessful login attempts by any user on the .   Exit Status See .   Security This command can only be executed by the prime administrator (padmin) user.   Examples To list all failed logins, type: lsfailedlogin   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lsgcl command Purpose Lists the contents of the global command log to the screen.   Syntax lsgcl   Description The lsgcl command lists the contents of the global command log (gcl). This log contains a listing of all  commands that have been executed by all  users. Each listing contains the date and time of execution as well as the userid the command  was executed from.  Global command log file format is as follows: Date Time userid Command Command options mmm dd yyyy hh:mm:ss cccccccc Command  Command options span to 80 characters  then wraps to the next row    Exit Status See .   Security This command can only be executed by the prime administrator (padmin) user.   Examples To list the contents of the global command log, type: lsgcl   Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Standard shell commands Commands related to shells for the . Parent topic:          
 Storage pool commands Commands related to configuring and managing storage pools for the . Parent topic:          
 chbdsp command Purpose Changes the characteristics of a backing device within a storage pool.   Syntax Increase the size of a backing device:  chbdsp [ StoragePool ]  BackingDevice {}  Rename a backing device:  chbdsp [ StoragePool ]  BackingDevice {}   Description The chbdsp command changes attributes of the specified backing device.  If the -size flag is specified the backing devices's size is increased.  Size can be given in megabytes (###M/m) or gigabytes (###G/g).      If the -mv flag is specified, the backing device is renamed. This command does not support shared storage pools.   The backing device that you specified cannot be assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition).   Flags Flag name Description -bd BackingDevice  Specifies the backing device. -mv NewName Specifies the new name of the backing device. -size Size  Specifies the minimum amount of storage to add to the backing device. -sp StoragePool Specifies the storage pool to be used.   Exit Status Return code Description 23 Specified storage pool is not a valid storage pool. 39 The given backing device is not in the specified storage pool. 40 File backing device names cannot exceed "38" characters in length.   Examples To increase the size of a the backing device client1, in the default storage pool by 3 gigabytes, type:    chbdsp -bd client1 -size 3g To rename the backing device cl_data, in the storage pool partition_3, to bank_data, type:  chbdsp -sp partition_3 -bd cl_data -mv bank_data   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 User ID commands Commands related to managing users for the . Parent topic:          
 ldapadd command Purpose Opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds, and modifies or adds entries.    Syntax ldapadd [][][][][][][][][][][ file][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][]    Description The ldapmodify command opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds, and modifies or adds entries. The entry information is read from standard input or from file, specified using the -f  option. ldapadd is implemented as a hard  link to  the ldapmodify tool. When invoked as ldapadd, the -a (add new entry) option is turned on automatically.   Flags Flag name Description -a  Forces add operation as default. -b  Supports binary values from files (old style paths). -c Specifies continuous operation; do not stop processing on error. -C charset Sets the character set name to use, as registered with Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). -d level Sets the debugging level in LDAP library. -D dn Binds dn. -f  file  Specifies that entry-modification information should be read from the specified file.   Standard input is used if the file is not specified. -g Specifies that trailing spaces should not be stripped on attribute values. -G realm Specifies that realm is to be used for the DIGEST-MD5 bind mechanism. -h host Specifies the LDAP server host name. -i file Specifies that read entry-modification information should be read from the specified file.   Standard input is used if the file is not specified. -K keyfile Specifies the file to use for keys. -m  mechanism Performs SASL bind with the given mechanism. -M Manages referral objects as normal entries. -N  key_name Specifies the private key name to use in the keyfile. -O  maxhops Specifies the maximum number of referrals to follow in a sequence. -p  port Specifies the LDAP server port number. -P  key_pw Specifies the keyfile password. -r  Forces replace operation as default. -R  Specifies not to chase referrals. -U username Specifies the user name for the DIGEST-MD5 bind mechanism. -v Specifies verbose mode -V version Specifies the LDAP protocol version (2 or 3; default is 3). -w password Binds password or '?' for non-echoed prompt. -y Requests proxied authorization control. -Y Uses a secure ldap connection (TLS). -Z Uses a secure ldap connection (SSL).   Exit Status See .   Related Information The  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 ldapsearch command Purpose Opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds, and performs a search using the filter filter.    Syntax ldapsearch [][][ basedn][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][] filter [attributes...]  where basedn equals the base distinguished name for the search, filter equals the LDAP search filter, options equals any other flags, and attributes equals a whitespace-separated list of attributes to retrieve. If no attribute list is specified, all attributes are retrieved.  basedn is optional if LDAP_BASEDN is set in the environment.   Description If the ldapsearch command finds one or more entries, the attributes specified by attrs are retrieved and the entries and values are printed to standard output.  If no attrs are listed, all attributes are returned.   Flags Flag name Description -a deref Specifies how to dereference aliases (never, always, search, or find). -A  Retrieves attribute names only (no values). -b basedn Specifies base distinguished name (dn) for search. LDAP_BASEDN in environment is the default. -B   Specifies not to suppress printing of non-ASCII values. -C charset Sets the character set name to use, as registered with Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). -d level Sets the debugging level in LDAP library. -D dn Binds dn. -e Displays LDAP library version information and quit. -f  file  Performs sequence of searches using filters in ‘file' “ must be substituted for the filter. -F sep Prints ‘sep' between attribute names and values. -G realm Specifies that realm is to be used for the DIGEST-MD5 bind mechanism. -h host Specifies the LDAP server host name. -i file Performs sequence of searches using filters in ‘file' “ must be substituted for the filter. -k  Uses server administration control on bind. -K keyfile Specifies the file to use for the keys. -l time Specifies time limit (in seconds) for search. -L Prints entries in LDIF format (-B is implied). -m  mechanism Performs SASL bind with the specified mechanism. -M Manages referral objects as normal entries. -n Shows what would be done but don't actually perform the action. -N  key_name Specifies the private key name to use in the keyfile. -o attr_type Sorts based on specified attribute type. -O  maxhops Specifies the maximum number of referrals to follow in a sequence. -p  port Specifies the LDAP server port number. -P  key_pw Specifies the keyfile password. -q pagesize Queries page size for paged results. -R  Specifies not to chase referrals. -s  scope Searches scope. The search scope can be one of the following: base, one, or sub. -t scope Writes values to files in /tmp. -T seconds Specifies the number of seconds to wait between pages for paged results. -U username Specifies the user name for the DIGEST-MD5 bind mechanism. -v Runs in verbose mode. -V version Specifies the LDAP protocol version. The version can be 2 or 3. The default is 3. -w password Binds password or '?' for non-echoed prompt. -y proxydn Sets proxied ID for proxied authorization operation. -Y Uses a secure LDAP connection (TLS). -zsize Specifies the size limit (in entries) for the search. -Z Uses a secure LDAP connection (SSL). -9control Sets the criticality for control option. The control can be one of the following options: s  sets criticality for sorting to false p  sets criticality for paging to false   Exit Status See .   Examples To open a connection to the LDAP server and search on specific attributes, type: ldapsearch -h vclient.host.com -D cn=admin -w adminpw -b cn=aixdata objectclass=*   Related Information The  command and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lsuser command Purpose Displays user account attributes.   Syntax lsuser [ ALL |  Name[, Name ] ...]    Description The lsuser command displays the user account attributes. You can use this command to list all attributes of all the system user accounts or all the attributes of specific user accounts. If you specify more than one user account, each user account is separated by a comma. If you do not specify any user accounts, the attributes of all user accounts are displayed.  The lsuser command lists each user's attributes on one line. It displays attribute information as Attribute=Value definitions, each separated by a blank space. The lsuser command only displays the users that were created on the Virtual I/O Server. It filters out all users that do not use the rksh shell or have the following role: roles=RunDiagnostics.  The lsuser command does not display all LDAP users. For example, the command does not display an LDAP user that was created on another LDAP client, that does not exist on the Virtual I/O Server.   Exit Status See .   Security This command can be run by any users.  However, user attributes are only displayed for the padmin user.   Examples To list all users on the system, type: lsuser The system displays output similar to the following for the padmin user: padmin roles=PAdmin account_locked=false expires=0 histexpire=0  histsize=0 loginretries=0 maxage=0 maxexpired=-1 maxrepeats=8 minage=0 minalpha=0 mindiff=0 minlen=0 minother=0 pwdwarntime=0 sally roles=DEUser account_locked=false expires=0 histexpire=0 histsize=0 loginretries=0 maxage=0 maxexpired=-1 maxrepeats=8 minage=0 minalpha=0 mindiff=0 minlen=0 minother=0 pwdwarntime=330 henry roles=DEUser account_locked=false expires=0 histexpire=0 histsize=0 loginretries=0 maxage=0 maxexpired=-1 maxrepeats=8 minage=0 minalpha=0 mindiff=0 minlen=0 minother=0 pwdwarntime=330 admin1 roles=Admin account_locked=false expires=0 histexpire=0 histsize=0 loginretries=0 maxage=0 maxexpired=-1 maxrepeats=8 minage=0 minalpha=0 mindiff=0 minlen=0 minother=0 pwdwarntime=330 deuser1 roles=DEUser account_locked=false expires=0 histexpire=0 histsize=0 loginretries=0 maxage=0 maxexpired=-1 maxrepeats=8 minage=0 minalpha=0 mindiff=0 minlen=0 minother=0 pwdwarntime=330  sruser1 roles=SRUser,RunDiagnostics  account_locked=false expires=0 histexpire=0 histsize=0 loginretries=0 maxage=0 maxexpired=-1 maxrepeats=8 minage=0 minalpha=0 mindiff=0 minlen=0 minother=0 pwdwarntime=330 view1 roles=ViewOnly account_locked=false expires=0 histexpire=0 histsize=0 loginretries=0 maxage=0 maxexpired=-1 maxrepeats=8 minage=0 minalpha=0 mindiff=0 minlen=0 minother=0 pwdwarntime=330 The system displays the following information for other users: padmin roles=PAdmin  sally roles=DEUser  henry roles=DEUser  admin1 roles=Admin  deuser1 roles=DEUser  sruser1 roles=SRUser view1 roles=ViewOnly  To display the attributes of user admin1, type the following command: lsuser admin1 To display the attributes of user admin1 and user admin2, type the following command: lsuser admin1, admin2   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 passwd command Purpose Changes a user's password.   Syntax passwd [ User ]   Description The passwd command sets and changes passwords for users. Use this command to change your own password (all users) or another user's password (padmin only). To change your own password, enter the passwd command. The passwd command prompts the non-padmin user for the old password and then prompts for the new password twice. The password is never displayed on the screen. If the two entries of the new password do not match, the passwd command prompts for the new password again.   Password policy is checked during a password change. Construct locally defined passwords according to the following password restrictions:    Field Description minother  Specifies the minimum number of other characters. minlen Specifies the minimum number of characters.  maxrepeats Specifies the maximum number of times a single character can be used in a password. maxage Specifies the maximum age of a password. A password must be changed after a specified amount of time measured in weeks. maxexpired Specifies the maximum number of weeks beyond the maxage value that a password can be changed by the user. histexpire Specifies the number of weeks that a user cannot reuse a password. histsize Specifies the number of previous passwords that the user cannot reuse.   Exit Status See .   Security Changing a password other than your own requires prime administrator authority.   Examples To change the password for user account heerlen, type: passwd heerlen The user will then be prompted to enter the new password.   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Virtual media repository commands Commands related to configuring and managing the virtual media repository for the . Parent topic:          
 chrep command Purpose Change the characteristics of the Virtual Media Repository.   Syntax chrep   Size     Description The chrep command increases the size of the Virtual Media Repository by at least the amount specified with the -size flag.  The actual amount of storage added to the repository is dependent on the allocation size of the parent storage pool.   Use the  lssp command to determine the parent storage pools allocation size. The specified flag cannot be a negative number. Size Minimum file storage pool size ###M/m ###MB ###G/g ###GB   Flags Flag name Description -size Size Specifies the minimum amount of storage to add to the file storage pool.   Examples To increase the size of the Virtual Media Repository by at least 64 megabyte, type the following command:  chrep -size 64m   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 chvopt command Purpose Change the characteristics of a virtual optical media disk within the Virtual Media Repository.   Syntax chvopt   FileName { Value |  NewName}   Description The chvopt command renames or changes the access permission's of a virtual optical media disk within the Virtual Media Repository.  If the -access flag is specified, then the permissions can be set to read-only (ro) or read-write (rw). If the -mv flag is specified the media file name is changed.   The file name cannot be changed if the media file is loaded into a virtual optical device.   Flags Flag name Description -access Value Specifies the new access permission.  Valid values are:  ro - read-only rw - read-write   -name FileName Specifies the file name whose access permission is to be changed. -mv NewName Specifies the new file name.   Examples To change the access permissions on the file clientData to read-only, type the following command:    chvopt -name clientData -access ro   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 loadopt command Purpose Load a virtual optical media disk from the Virtual Media Repository into a virtual optical device.   Syntax loadopt [  ] [ ]  FileName  VirtualTargetDevice   Description The  loadopt command loads the specified virtual optical disk (FileName) into the specified virtual optical device (VirtualTargetDevice).     A particular virtual disk can only be loaded into more than one file-backed virtual optical device simultaneously if the virtual DVD is designated as read-only.  If the virtual optical device already has a different virtual disk loaded, the command will fail unless the -f flag is specified, in which case an implicit unload will be performed first.    Flags Flag name Description -disk FileName Specifies the file name of the virtual media to load into the virtual optical device. -f  Force the media to be loaded even if the virtual optical device already has media loaded. -release Forces the virtual optical device to be unlocked even if the client has a reserve on the device. -vtd VirtualTargetDevice The name of the virtual target device.   Examples To load the virtual optical disk clientData into the virtual optical device vopt1, type the following command: loadopt -disk clientData -vtd vopt1   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lsrep command Purpose Lists and displays information about the Virtual Media Repository.   Syntax lsrep [  Fieldname]  [ Delimiter ]   Description The lsrep command displays information about the Virtual Media Repository.   The following information is displayed;  the size of the repository and free space, parent storage pool, size and free space, and the name, size, associated virtual target device, and access state of all virtual optical media in the repository.  This command will provide full scripting support through the use of the -field and -fmt flags.   Flags Flag name Description -field FieldName  size Total Size  free Free space  parent pool Parent storage pool name  parent size Parent storage pool size  parent free Parent storage pool free space  name Number of backing device file  file size Backing device file size  optical Virtual Target Device off the virtual optical device media is loaded in  access Media access, read-only (ro) or read-write (rw)  -fmt Delimiter Specifies a delimiter character to separate output fields.   Examples  To display information about the Virtual Media repository and all virtual media with the repository, type the following command:  lsrep The system displays output similar to the following: SIZE(mb) FREE(mb)     PARENT SIZE      PARENT FREE     2039      299           18352            16304 Name                                    File Size Optical         Access  clientCD                                      640 vtopt3          ro      installDVD1                                  1000 vtopt16         rw      installDVD2                                   100 None            rw  To display only the parent storage pool size, type the following command: lsrep -field "parent size" Parent Size         30624   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 lsvopt command Purpose Lists and displays information about the systems virtual optical devices.    Syntax lsvopt [  VirtualTargetDevice] [Fieldnames] [ Delimiter]   Description The  lsvopt command displays information about file backed virtual optical devices in the Virtual I/O Server.  If no flags are specified, a list of all defined file backed virtual optical devices,  loaded media, and the size of the media is displayed.  If the -vtd flag is specified, the media loaded and its size is displayed for the given virtual target device.   This command will provide full scripting support through the use of the -field and -fmt flags.    Flags Flag name Description Specifies the Virtual target device of the file backed virtual optical media  -field FieldName The following fields are supported if no flags are specified: vtd Virtual target device of file backed virtual optical device   media File name of  loaded media or No Media  size Size of loaded media or n/a   Delimiter Specifies a delimiter character to separate output fields.   Examples To display information about all file backed virtual optical devices in the Virtual I/O Server, type the following command:  lsvopt The system displays output similar to the following: VTD             Media                                   Size(mb) testopt         No Media                                     n/a vtopt2          No Media                                     n/a vtopt3          clientCD                                     640 vtopt4          No Media                                     n/a vtopt5          No Media                                     n/a vtopt6          No Media                                     n/a vtopt7          No Media                                     n/a vtopt8          No Media                                     n/a vtopt9          No Media                                     n/a vtopt10         No Media                                     n/a vtopt11         No Media                                     n/a vtopt12         No Media                                     n/a vtopt13         clientCD                                     640 vtopt14         No Media                                     n/a vtopt15         No Media                                     n/a vtopt16         installDVD1                                 1000 vtopt17         installDVD2                                  100     Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 mkrep command Purpose Create the Virtual Media Repository.   Syntax mkrep   ParentStoragePool  Size    Description The mkrep command creates  the virtual media repository in the specified parent storage pool.   The virtual media repository is used to store virtual optical media which can be conceptually inserted into file-backed virtual optical devices.   See the mkvdev command for detail on how to create file-backed virtual optical devices.  The -size  flag specifies the minimum size the repository should be. When specifying the Size the following conventions must be used:  Size Minimum file storage pool size ###M/m ###MB ###G/g ###GB   Flags Flag name Description -size Size Specifies the minimum size the repository should be. -sp ParentStoragePool Specifies the parent storage pool the repository should be created within.  The parent storage pool must be a logical volume pool.   Examples To create the virtual media repository within logical volume storage pool client_data with a size of at least 100 megabytes , type the following command: mkrep -sp client_data -size 100m   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 mkvopt command Purpose Create a virtual optical media disk in the Virtual Media Repository   Syntax mkvopt   FileName { Size |  OptDevice |  SourceFile} [ ]   Description The mkvopt command creates a new virtual optical disk in the Virtual Media Repository.  If the -size flag is specified, the new optical disk is initialized to all zeros of the given Size.  If the -dev flag is specified,  the given device, OptDevice, must be an optical device with media loaded.   The contents of the loaded media within the device, will be used to create the optical media. If the -file flag is specified, SourceFile is copied into the repository.   By default, the virtual optical disk is created as DVD-RAM media.  If the -ro flag is specified, the disk will be create as DVD-ROM media.  When specifying Size the following conventions must be used:  Size Minimum file size n M/m n MB n G/g n GB   Flags Flag name Description -dev OptDevice Specifies a physical optical device with media loaded. -file SourceFile Specifies the name of an existing file to by copied into the repository. -name FileName Specifies the name of the new virtual optical media file. -ro Create the new disk as read-only (DVD-ROM). -size Size Specifies how big to make the new virtual optical media.   Examples To create a read-only virtual optical disk with the name pressData from existing optical media in device cd0, type the following command:   mkvopt -name pressData -dev cd0 -ro To create a new virtual optical disk with the name blankDVD with 1 Gigabyte storage capacity, type the following command:  mkvopt -name blankDVD -size 1g   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 rmrep command Purpose Remove the Virtual Media Repository   Syntax rmrep [ ]   Description The rmrep command removes the Virtual Media Repository from the Virtual I/O Server.  If  there are any Virtual Target Devices associated with any virtual optical media in the repository the command will fail.  If  virtual optical media exist in the repository, but there are no Virtual Target Devices associated with them, the command will fail unless the -f flag is specified.   Flags Flag name Description -f  Forces the repository to be removed even if it contains virtual optical media.    Examples To remove the Virtual Media Repository, type the following command:   rmrep   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 rmvopt command Purpose Remove a virtual optical media disk from the Virtual Media Repository.   Syntax rmvopt  []    Description The  command removes the specified media from the Virtual Media Repository.  If  the media is currently loaded into one or more virtual optical devices the command will fail, unless the -f flag is specified.   Flags Flag name Description -f  Force the media to be removed even if it is loaded into one or more virtual optical devices. -name FileName The name of the virtual optical media to remove.   Examples To remove the file clientData from the Virtual Media Repository, type the following command:     rmvopt -name clientData   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 unloadopt command Purpose Remove a virtual optical media disk from a virtual optical device.    Syntax unloadopt [  ]  VirtualTargetDevice   Description The unloadopt command removes a virtual optical disk from the specified virtual optical device (VirtualTargetDevice).   After the command completes the specified optical device will contain no media.     Flags Flag name Description -release  Forces the virtual optical device to be unlocked even if the client has a reserve on the device. -vtd VirtualTargetDevice The name of the virtual target device.   Examples To unload the virtual optical disk loaded into the virtual optical device vopt1, type the following command: unloadopt  -vtd vopt1   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Virtual terminals commands Commands related to opening and closing a virtual terminal for a client logical partition from the . Parent topic:          
 mkvt command Purpose Create a virtual terminal connection to a partition.   Syntax mkvt { -id lparID }   Description The mkvt command opens a virtual terminal connection to the target partition.  You can terminate the virtual terminal connection in one of the following ways:  The virtual terminal contains an escape sequence that allows you to break out of the command. The escape sequence is <cr>~., or more explicitly: the Enter key, the tilde (~), and the period (.). You can use the rmvt command to force the session to be closed. A partition can only have one open virtual terminal session. For additional information on HMC environment, refer . For additional information on HMC command, refer .    Flags Flag name Description -id lparID The ID of the partition for which to open the virtual terminal session.   Exit Status Return code Description 27  Unexpected error 28 Virtual terminal is already connected 29 Virtual terminal device is not found 30 Permission denied 31 Specified device does not exist   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples Create a virtual terminal connection to the partition with ID 3:        mkvt -id 3     Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 rmvt command Purpose Closes a virtual terminal connection to a partition. This command is valid only in an Integrated Virtualization Manager environment.   Syntax rmvt { -id lparID }   Description The rmvt command closes a virtual terminal connection to the target logical partition. To close the virtual terminal session normally, enter  the ~. character sequence in the terminal window.  This command requires additional HMC configuration if used in an HMC environment.   Flags Flag name Description -id lparID 	 The ID of the partition for which to close the virtual terminal session.   Exit Status Return code Description 29  Virtual terminal device is not found   Security This command is not accessible by users with the ViewOnly role.   Examples  To close a virtual terminal connection to the partition with ID 3, type:    rmvt -id 3         Related Information The  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Volume group commands Commands related to configuring and managing volume groups for the . Parent topic:          
 activatevg command Purpose Activates a volume group.   Syntax activatevg  [ ] VolumeGroup   Description The activatevg command activates the volume group specified by the VolumeGroup parameter and all associated logical volumes. When a volume group is activated, physical partitions are synchronized if they are not current.   Flags Flag name Description -f Allows a volume group to be made active that does not currently have a quorum of available disks.   Exit Status See .   Examples To activate volume group vg03, type:  activatevg vg03   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 alt_root_vg command PurposeCreates a copy of (clones) the currently running system to an alternative disk.   Syntaxalt_root_vg [] [] [  ]     DescriptionThe alt_root_vg command allows users to copy the current root volume group to an alternate disk and to update the operating system to the next fix pack level, without taking the machine down for an extended period of time and mitigating outage risk. This can be done by creating a copy of the current rootvg on an alternate disk and simultaneously applying fix pack updates. If needed, the bootlist command can be run after the new disk has been booted, and the bootlist can be changed to boot back to the older  level of the operating system.  The target_disk cannot be a physical volume that is assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition). Cloning the running rootvg, allows the user to create a backup copy of  the root volume group. This copy can be used as a back up in case the rootvg failed, or it can be modified by installing additional updates.  One scenario might be to clone a 1.3.0.0 system, and then install  updates to bring the cloned rootvg to 1.3.0.0-FP8.0. This would update the system while it was still running. Rebooting from the new rootvg would  bring the level of the running system to 1.3.0.0-FP8.0. If there was a  problem with this level, changing the bootlist back to the 1.3.0.0 disk  and rebooting would bring the system back to 1.3.0.0. Other scenarios  would include cloning the rootvg and applying individual fixes,  rebooting the system and testing those fixes, and rebooting back to the  original rootvg if there was a problem. At the end of the installation, a volume group, altinst_rootvg, is left on the target disks in the varied off state as a placeholder. If varied on, it indicates that it owns no logical volumes; however, the volume  group does contain logical volumes, but they have been removed from the  Object Data Manager (ODM) because their names now conflict with the names of the logical  volumes on the running system. Do not vary on the altinst_rootvg volume  group; instead, leave the definition there as a placeholder. After rebooting from the new alternate disk, the former rootvg volume group is displayed in a lspv listing as old_rootvg, and it includes all disks in the original rootvg. This former rootvg volume group is set to not vary-on at reboot. If a return to the original rootvg is necessary, the bootlist command  is used to reboot from the original rootvg.   FlagsFlag name Description -target  Specifies a space-delimited list of the name or names of the target disks where the alternate rootvg clone is created. These disks must not contain any volume group definitions. The lspv command shows these disks because they belong to the None volume group. -bundle  Specifies the path name of an optional file that contains a list of packages or filesets that are installed after a rootvg clone is created. You must also specify the -location flag when you specify the bundle option.  -location  Specifies the location of the installp images or updates to apply after a clone of rootvg is created. The location can be a directory and full-path name or device name, such as /dev/rmt0. -g Skips checks to ensure the disk can boot. -z Specifies that no types of non-rootvg volume groups are to be imported. Exit StatusSee .   ExamplesTo create a boot list of logical devices to be used in the next normal boot, enter the following commands: alt_root_vg -target hdisk2 -bundle my_bundle -location /tmp/update alt_root_vg -target hdisk2 -bundle my_bundle -location /home/padmin   Related InformationThe  command.    Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 chvg command Purpose Sets the characteristics of a volume group.   Syntax chvg   [] [ | ] [ <num> [-chksize] VolumeGroup   Description The chvg command changes the characteristics of a volume group.   Flags Flag name Description -resume Resumes normal I/O operations for a volume group. -suspend Drains I/O's for this volume group and suspends future I/O's. -unlock Unlocks the volume group. This option is provided if the volume group is left in a locked state by abnormal termination of another LVM operation (such as the command core dumping, or the system crashing).  Before using the -unlock flag, make sure that the volume group is not being used by another LVM command.   Changes the limit of the number of physical partitions per physical volume, specified by factor. factor should be between 1-16 for 32 disk volume groups and 1-64 for 128 disk volume groups.    If factor is not supplied, it is set to the lowest value such that the number of physical partitions in the volume group is less than factor x1016. If factor is specified, the maximum number of physical partitions per physical volume for the volume group changes to factor x1016.  Examines all the disks in the volume group to determine if they have grown in size. This option does not support resizing a volume group while it is activated in classic or enhanced concurrent mode. This option does not support resizing the rootvg volume group. If any disks have grown in size, this option attempts to add additional physical partitions to the physical volume. If necessary, this option determines the appropriate 1016 multiplier and conversion to big volume group.  After running chvg -chksize, it might be necessary to run the deactivatevg, followed by running the activatevg command on the volume group to see the change of size of the disks.   Exit Status See .   Examples To suspend the volume group vg03, type: chvg -suspend vg03 To resume the volume group vg03, type: chvg -resume vg03 To change the number of physical partitions per physical volume by 4, type: chvg -factor 4 testvg To determine whether the testvg volume group has grown in size after adding additional physical partitions to the physical volumes in the group, type:chvg -chksize testvg   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 deactivatevg command Purpose Deactivates a volume group.   Syntax deactivatevg VolumeGroup   Description The deactivatevg command deactivates the volume group specified by the VolumeGroup parameter along with its associated logical volumes. The logical volumes must first be closed. For example, if the logical volume contains a file system, it must be unmounted.   Exit Status See .   Examples To deactivate volume group vg03, type: deactivatevg vg03      Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 exportvg command Purpose Exports the definition of a volume group from a set of physical volumes.   Syntax exportvg VolumeGroup   Description The exportvg command removes the definition of the volume group specified by the VolumeGroup parameter from the system. The primary use of the exportvg command, coupled with the importvg command, is to allow portable volumes to be exchanged between systems. Only a complete volume group can be exported, not individual physical volumes.  Using the exportvg command and the importvg command, you can also switch ownership of data on physical volumes shared between two processors.  Mount points longer than 128 characters will not automatically be re-mounted when the volume group is imported using the importvg command and should not be used.   A volume group that has a paging space volume on it cannot be exported.   Exit Status See .   Examples To remove volume group vg02 from the system, type: exportvg vg02   The volume group must be deactivated before exporting.   The definition of vg02 is removed from the system and the volume group cannot be accessed.   Restrictions Mount points longer than 128 characters should not be used.  A volume group that has a paging space volume on it cannot be exported.   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 extendvg command Purpose Adds physical volumes to a volume group.   Syntax extendvg   [   ] VolumeGroup PhysicalVolume ...   Description The extendvg command increases the size of volume group by adding one or more physical volumes. The physical volume is checked to verify that it is not already in another volume group. If the system determines the physical volume belongs to a volume group that is activated, it exits. But if the system detects a description area from a volume group that is not activated, it prompts you for confirmation while continuing with the command. The previous contents of the physical volume are lost, so you must be cautious when using the override function.   Flags Flag name Description -f Forces the physical volume to be added to the specified volume group unless the following conditions are true:The physical volume is a member of another volume group in the device configuration database. The physical volume is a member of the another volume group that is active. The physical volume is assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition).    Exit Status See .   Examples To add physical volumes hdisk3 and hdisk8 to volume group vg3, type the following command: extendvg vg3 hdisk3 hdisk8   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 importvg command Purpose Imports a new volume group definition from a set of physical volumes.   Syntax importvg [  VolumeGroup ] PhysicalVolume   Description The importvg command makes the previously exported volume group known to the system.  The PhysicalVolume parameter specifies only one physical volume to identify the volume group; any remaining physical volumes (those belonging to the same volume group) are found by the importvg command and included in the import. An imported volume group is automatically activated. When a volume group with file systems is imported, the /etc/filesystems file is updated with values for the new logical volumes and mount points.    After importing the volume group, you must run the fsck command before the file systems can be mounted. Care should be taken to avoid using mount point longer than 128 characters as the mount point information would be missing from the LVCB (logical volume control block) if it is longer than 128 characters. In this case, the importvg command will not be able to update the /etc/filesystems file with the stanza for the newly imported logical volume.  The importvg command changes the name of a logical volume if the name already exists in the system. It prints a message and the new name to standard error, and updates the /etc/filesystems file to include the new logical volume name.   Flags Flag name Description -vg VolumeGroup Specifies the name to use for the new volume group. If this flag is not used, the system automatically generates a new name. The volume group name can only contain the following characters: "A" through "Z," "a" through "z," "0" through "9," or "_" (the underscore), "-" (the minus sign), or "." (the period). All other characters are considered invalid.   Exit Status See .   Examples To import the volume group bkvg from physical volume hdisk07, type: importvg -vg bkvg hdisk07  The volume group bkvg is made known to the system.   Restrictions Mount points cannot be longer than 128 characters.   Related Information The  command, the  commands, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 mirrorios command Purpose Mirrors all the logical volumes on rootvg.   Syntax mirrorios [PhysicalVolume ...]   Description The mirrorios command takes all the logical volumes on the rootvg volume group and mirrors those logical volumes. The target physical drives must already be members of the volume group.  The mirrorios command attempts to mirror the logical volumes onto any of the disks in a volume group. To control which drives are used for mirroring, you must include the list of disks in the input parameters, PhysicalVolume. Mirror strictness is enforced. The mirrorios command mirrors the logical volumes, using the default settings of the logical volume being mirrored.   For best results, mirror the rootvg volume group on all   partitions.  Only the prime administrator (padmin) can run this command.   Flags Flag name Description PhysicalVolume Specifies the target physical volume name. The volume must already be a member of the volume group.   Exit Status Return code Description 5 The   is already mirrored 6 Boot LV not found 7 The physical volume appears to belong to another volume group   Examples To mirror the   root volume group to physical volume hdisk4, type the following command: mirrorios hdisk4   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, .   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 mkvg command Purpose Creates a volume group.   Syntax mkvg   [   ][  VolumeGroup ] PhysicalVolume ...   Description The mkvg command creates a new volume group using the physical volumes represented by the PhysicalVolume parameter. After creating the volume group, the mkvg command automatically activates the new volume group using the activatevg command.   The physical volume is checked to verify that it is not already in another volume group. If the system believes the physical volume belongs to a volume group that is active, it exits. But if the system detects a description area from a volume group that is not active, it prompts the user for confirmation in continuing with the command. The previous contents of the physical volume are lost, so the user must be cautious when using the override function.  This command will fail to add a disk to the volume group if the disk indicates that it is managed by a third party volume manager. The physical volume that you specify cannot be assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition).     Flags Flag name Description -f Forces the volume group to be created on the specified physical volume unless the physical volume is part of another volume group in the Device Configuration Database or a volume group that is active. -vg VolumeGroup Specifies the volume group name rather than having the name generated automatically. Volume group names must be unique system wide and can range from 1 to 15 characters. The name cannot begin with a prefix already defined in the PdDv class in the Device Configuration database for other devices. The volume group name created is sent to standard output.  The volume group name can only contain the following characters: "A" through "Z," "a" through "z," "0" through "9," or "_" (the underscore), "-" (the minus sign), or "." (the period). All other characters are considered invalid.   Exit Status See .   Examples To create a volume group that contains physical disks hdisk3, hdisk5, and hdisk6, type: mkvg hdisk3 hdisk5 hdisk6  The volume group is created with an automatically generated name, which is displayed. To create the volume group newvg with one physical partition, type: mkvg -vg newvg hdisk1   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 redefvg command Purpose Redefines the set of physical volumes of the given volume group in the device configuration database.   Syntax redefvg {   Device |    Vgid } VolumeGroup   Description During normal operations, the device configuration database remains consistent with the Logical Volume Manager (LVM) information in the reserved area on the physical volumes. If inconsistencies occur between the device configuration database and the LVM, the redefvg command determines which physical volumes belong to the specified volume group and enters this information in the device configuration database. The redefvg command checks for inconsistencies by reading the reserved areas of all the configured physical volumes attached to the system.   Flags Flag name Description -dev Device The volume group ID, Vgid, is read from the specified physical volume device.  You can specify the Vgid of any physical volume belonging to the volume group that you are redefining. -vgid Vgid The volume group identification number of the volume group to be redefined.   Exit Status See .   Examples To synchronize the copies on physical volumes hdisk04, type:   redefvg -dev hdisk04   To synchronize the copies on volume groups vg04 and vg05, type:   redefvg -vgid vg04 vg05   Related Information The  command, the   command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 reducevg command Purpose Removes physical volumes from a volume group. When all physical volumes are removed from the volume group, the volume group is deleted.    Syntax reducevg [  ]  [  ]VolumeGroup PhysicalVolume ...   Description The reducevg command removes one or more physical volumes represented by the PhysicalVolume parameter from the VolumeGroup. When you remove all physical volumes in a volume group, the volume group is also removed.   Sometimes a disk is removed from the system without first running the reducevg command. The VGDA still has this removed disk in its memory, but the PhysicalVolume name no longer exists or has been reassigned. To remove references to this missing disk you can still use reducevg, but with the Physical Volume ID (PVID) instead of the disk name: reducevg VolumeGroup PVID. The specified physical volume cannot contain a logical volume that is assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition).   Flags Flag name Description -f Removes the requirement for user confirmation when the -rmlv flag is used. -rmlv Deallocates the existing logical volume partitions and then deletes resultant empty logical volumes from the specified physical volumes. User confirmation is required unless the -f flag is added.  The reducevg command with the -rmlv flag automatically deletes all logical volume data on the physical volume before removing the physical volume from the volume group. If a logical volume spans multiple physical volumes, the removal of any of those physical volumes may jeopardize the integrity of the entire logical volume.   Exit Status See .   Examples To remove physical volume hdisk1 from volume group vg01, type: reducevg vg01 hdisk1 To remove physical volume hdisk1 and all residing logical volumes from volume group vg01 without  user confirmation, type:   The reducevg command with the -rmlv flag  automatically deletes all logical volume data before removing the physical volume.   reducevg -rmlv -f vg01 hdisk1 The physical volume hdisk1 and all residing logical volumes are removed.    Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 syncvg command Purpose Synchronizes logical volume copies that are not current.   Syntax syncvg {  |  |  } Name ...   Description The syncvg command synchronizes the physical partitions, which are copies of the original physical partition, that are not current. The syncvg command can be used with logical volumes, physical volumes, or volume groups, with the Name parameter representing the logical volume name, physical volume name, or volume group name.  Unless disabled, the copies within a volume group are synchronized automatically when the volume group is activated by the activatevg command.   For the sycnvg command to be successful, at least one good copy of the logical volume should be accessible, and the physical volumes that contains this copy should be in ACTIVE state.   The syncvg command will check for the NUM_PARALLEL_LPS environment variable. The value of NUM_PARALLEL_LPS will be used to set the number of logical partitions to be synchronized in parallel.   Flags Flag name Description -lv Specifies that the Name parameter represents a logical volume device name. -pv Specifies that the Name parameter represents a physical volume device name. -vg Specifies that the Name parameter represents a volume group device name.   Exit Status See .   Examples To synchronize the copies on physical volumes hdisk04 and hdisk05, type: syncvg -pv hdisk04 hdisk05 To synchronize the copies on volume groups vg04 and vg05, type: syncvg -vg vg04 vg05      Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 unmirrorios command Purpose Removes the mirrors that exist on the rootvg volume group.    Syntax unmirrorios [ PhysicalVolume ...]   Description The unmirrorios command unmirrors all the logical volumes detected on the rootvg volume group. By default, unmirrorios will pick the set of mirrors to remove from a mirrored volume group. To control which drives no longer are to contain mirrors, you must include the list of disks in the input parameters, PhysicalVolume.  At the completion of this command, Quorum will be disabled until the system is rebooted.   If LVM has not recognized that a disk has failed, it is possible that it will remove a different mirror. If you know that a disk has failed, and LVM does not show those disks as missing, you should specify the failed disks on the command line or you should use the reducevg command to remove the disk.   Exit Status See .   Security This command can only be executed by the prime administrator.   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Workload manager commands Commands related to the workload manager for the . Parent topic:          
 wkldagent command Purpose Starts, stops, or queries the state of the Workload Manager Agent.   Syntax wkldagent  |  |    Description The wkldagent command starts, stops, and queries the state of the Workload Manager Agent. The Workload Manager Agent provides recording capability for a limited set of local system performance metrics. These include common CPU, memory, network, disk, and partition metrics typically displayed by the  command.  The Workload Manager must be started using the  command before the wkldagent command is run. Daily recordings are stored in the /home/ios/perf/wlm directory with filenames xmwlm.YYMMDD, where YY is the year, MM is the month, and DD is the day. The  command can be used to process Workload Manager-related recordings. All recordings cover 24-hour periods and are retained for only two days.   Flags Flag name Description -start Starts the Workload Manager Agent. -status Displays the state of the Workload Manager Agent, either running or stopped. -stop Stops the Workload Manager Agent.   Exit Status Return code Description 0 The command completed successfully >0 An error occurred.   Examples To start the Workload Manager Agent, type: wkldmgr -start To check whether the Workload Manager Agent is currently active, type: wkldmgr -status To stop the Workload Manager Agent, type: wkldmgr -stop   Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 wkldmgr command Purpose Starts or stops Workload Manager.   Syntax wkldmgr  |  |    Description The wkldmgr command starts, stops, and queries the state of the Workload Manager. Starting the Workload Manager is necessary for the -cecdisp option of the  command to work properly.   Flags Flag name Description -start Starts the Workload Manager. -status Displays the state of the Workload Manager, either running or stopped. -stop Stops the Workload Manager.   Exit Status Return code Description 0 The command completed successfully >0 An error occurred.   Examples To start the Workload Manager, type: wkldmgr -start To check whether the Workload Manager is currently active, type: wkldmgr -status To stop the Workload Manager, type: wkldmgr -stop   Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 wkldout command Purpose Provides post-processing of the recordings made by the Workload Manager Agent (wkldagent).   Syntax wkldout  [ reportType] [  MM] [ HHMM] [  HHMM]  [ -fmt [  modeType] ] [ ] [ ]  <xmwlm_recording_file>   Description  The wkldout command provides post-processing of recordings made by wkldagent. It can generate reports in ASCII or spreadsheet format. The output can be formatted by using the flags detailed, summary, disk or LAN. The time interval can be specified to process the xmwlm file for a particular interval.    Flags Flag name Description -report report  <type> Generates the report based on the type specified. The report type can be detailed, summary, LAN, or disk. The detailed report type produces the comprehensive output of the xmwlm file and displays the report on the screen. The summary report tpye produces the abstract output of the xmwlm file and displays on the report on the screen. The LAN report type generates the summary output related to system LAN from the given xmwlm file and displays on the report on the screen. The disk report type generates I/O summary information and generates the xmwlm file and displays on the report on the screen. -interval MM Specifies how the recording reports are split into equal size time periods. Allowed values (in minutes) are 5, 10, 15, 30, 60. If -interval flag is not specified, the default value is 5 minutes. -beg HHMM Indicates the beginning time in hours (HH) and minutes (MM). The range is between 0000 and 2400. -end HHMM Indicates the ending time in hours (HH) and minutes (MM). The range is between 0000 and 2400 and is greater than the begin time. -fmt  Generates a spreadsheet format output in a file under /home/ios/perf/wlm in the format xmwlm.YYMMDD_01. -mode <type> Specifies the post-processor only output mean values by default. Other values and the full set are available via other options (min, max, mean, stdev, set). -graph  Generates the .csv file under /home/ios/perf/wlm in the format xmwlm.YYMMDD.csv, which can be sent to the Nmon analyzer to produce graphs to help analyze and write reports. The Nmon analyzer requires Excel 2002 or later. -BinToAscii  Converts the recording data from binary to ASCII text format and stores the output in the /var/perf/pm/daily/ directory. -filename <name> Name of the wkldagent  recording file. These files will be generated by the wkldagent command and resides in /home/ios/perf/wlm in the format xmwlm.YYMMDD   Exit Status Return code Description 0 The command completed successfully >0 An error occurred.   Examples To display the system summary from xmwlm.070731, type the following command : wkldout  -report summary -filename /home/ios/perf/wlm/xmwlm.070731 To display the detailed report of the system from xmwlm.070731, type the following command:  wkldout  -report detailed -filename /home/ios/perf/wlm/xmwlm.070731 To display the disk I/O summary from xmwlm.070731, type the following command: wkldout  -report disk -filename /home/ios/perf/wlm/xmwlm.070731   To display the system lan summary from xmwlm.070731, type the following command: wkldout  -report lan -filename /home/ios/perf/wlm/xmwlm.070731   To produce the csv file from xmwlm.070731, type the following command: wkldout  -graph  -filename /home/ios/perf/wlm/xmwlm.070731   To display the system summary from xmwlm.070731 with time interval 10 min, type the following command:  wkldout  -report summary -interval 10  -filename /home/ios/perf/wlm/xmwlm.070731 To display the detailed report from xmwlm.070731, starting at 01:00 Hr and ending 02:00 Hr, type wkldout -report detailed -beg 0100 -end 0200  -filename /home/ios/perf/wlm/xmwlm.070731 To convert the file xmwlm.090610 from binary to ASCII format, type: wkldout -BinToAscii -filename /home/ios/perf/wlm/xmwlm.090610   Related Information The  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Reading syntax diagrams Syntax diagrams are a way to represent command syntax and consist of symbols such as brackets ([ ]), braces ({ }), and vertical bars (|). The following is a sample of a syntax statement for the  command: lsdev { -dev DeviceName | -plc PhysicalLocationCode } [ -child ] [ -field FieldName... ] [ -fmt Delimiter ]   The following conventions are used in the command syntax statements:Items that must be entered literally on the command line are in bold. These items include the command name, flags, and literal characters. Items representing variables that must be replaced by a name are in italics. These items include parameters that follow flags and parameters that the command reads, such as Files and Directories.  Parameters enclosed in brackets are optional. Parameters enclosed in braces are required.  Parameters not enclosed in either brackets or braces are required.  A vertical bar signifies that you choose only one parameter. For example, [ a | b ] indicates that you can choose a, b, or nothing. Similarly, { a | b } indicates that you must choose either a or b.  Ellipses ( ... ) signify the parameter can be repeated on the command line. The dash ( - ) represents standard input. Parent topic:          
 Integrated Virtualization Manager You can use the Integrated Virtualization Manager (IVM), a component of the  hardware feature, to manage your Virtual I/O Server and client logical partitions. The  () provides a Web-based system management interface and a command-line interface that you can use to manage some  servers  that  the . On the managed system, you can create logical partitions, manage virtual storage and virtual Ethernet, and view service information related to the server. The  is included with the , but it is available and usable only on certain platforms, and where no  () is present. If you install the  on a supported server, and if there is no  attached to the server when you install the , then the  is enabled on that server. You can then use the  to configure the managed system through the . Read about new or changed information for  () since the previous update of this topic collection.  The Integrated Virtualization Manager is a browser-based system management interface for the Virtual I/O Servers. The Integrated Virtualization Manager provides you with the ability to create and manage logical partitions on a single server. You can view and print a PDF file of the Integrated Virtualization Manager information. Develop a plan for setting up a server that is managed by the Integrated Virtualization Manager (IVM). Install the Virtual I/O Server management partition on an IBM Power System server. Then, connect to the Integrated Virtualization Manager Web-based interface. You can configure virtual resources on the management partition and create the client logical partitions and partition profiles. You can manage all aspects of the system with the Integrated Virtualization Manager including managing processor, memory, networking, and storage resources among the logical partitions on the system. Use the user-management tasks to manage the Integrated Virtualization Manager user accounts on your managed system. Use service-management tasks to maintain and troubleshoot the Integrated Virtualization Manager. Learn how to connect an  system that is managed by the  () to become an  system managed by a  ().    |      
 Installing the  Find instructions for installing the  by deploying a system plan or manually creating the logical partition and logical partition profiles and installing the  (). These instructions apply to installing the  on a system that is managed by a  (). If you plan to install the  on a system that is not managed by an , then you need to install the .  The installation procedures vary depending on the following factors: The version of  attached to the managed system on which you plan to install the .  Version 7 displays a different interface than prior versions of the .  Version 7 also provides the ability to deploy a system plan that includes the . Whether you plan to deploy a system plan that includes the  and client logical partitions. When you deploy a system plan, the  automatically performs the following tasks based on the information provided in the system plan:Creates the  logical partition and logical partition profile. Installs the  and provisions virtual resources. Creates the client logical partitions and logical partition profiles. Installs the  operating systems on client logical partitions. The  must be at V7R3.3.0, or later.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to install the . You can create the  logical partition and logical partition profile, and you can install the  () by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.1, or later. When you reinstall the  (VIOS) that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition), you need to reconfigure the shared memory environment. For example, you might need to add the paging space devices again to the shared memory pool. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Installing the  manually by using  Version 7 Release 7.1, and later You can create the  logical partition and logical partition profile, and you can install the  () by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.1, or later. Before you start, ensure that you meet the following requirements:The system on which you plan to install the  is managed by a  (). The  is at Version 7 Release 7.1, or later.  Use these instructions to enter the  activation code using the  () Version 7, or later. You can use the  () Version 7, release 7.1, or later to create a logical partition and partition profile for the  ().  Find instructions for installing the  () from a CD device, DVD device, saved image, or Network Installation Management (NIM) server by using the  () graphical user interface. Find instructions for installing the  () from the  command line by using the  command. After you install , you must check for updates, set up remote connects, create additional user IDs, and so on.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to install the  manually. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Entering the activation code for  by using  Version 7 Use these instructions to enter the  activation code using the  () Version 7, or later.  If  is not enabled on your system, you can use the  to enter the activation code that you received when you ordered the feature. Use the following procedure to enter the activation code for the .  To enter your activation code, follow these steps:  For example, this might be the system on which you plan to install the , or it might be the system in which you plan to use the  technology.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to enter the  activation code. Parent topic:  Related information:         
  overview The  hardware feature includes the following : The following table describes each component of the  feature and the editions in which each component is included. Component Description Editions Express Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition You can migrate an active or inactive , or  logical partition from one system to another by using . Enterprise Edition  Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Express Edition (, and VMControl) Standard Edition (, , and VMControl) Enterprise Edition (, , and VMControl)  technology You can allocate processors to logical partitions in increments of 0.01, which allows multiple logical partitions to share the processing power of the system. When the firmware is at level 7.6, or later, micropartitions can be defined as small as 0.05 of a processor and can be changed in increments as small as 0.01 of a processor. A maximum of 20 micropartitions can be created per core.   Express Edition  Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Express Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition You can share memory among logical partitions in a shared memory pool, by using .  Enterprise Edition Enterprise Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Shared storage pools provide distributed storage access to all  logical partitions in the cluster.  Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition You can share physical I/O resources on the server between client logical partitions by using . Express Edition Standard Edition  Enterprise Edition  The following table describes the  feature Feature Description With  Version 7.7.4, or later, and  processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.4, or later, you can enable Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) on an AIX logical partition. You can configure logical partitions on each server by using the , with each logical partition having its own unique VTPM. The VTPM software implementation checks system boot process, and in association with the AIX Trusted Execution technology provides security and assurance of the boot image on the disk, operating system, and application layers.  Trusted Firewall is a feature of PowerSC and you can enable Trusted Firewall in PowerVM. Trusted Firewall is supported on  Version 2.2.1.4, or later. With the Trusted Firewall feature, you can perform inter-VLAN routing functions by using the Security Virtual Machine (SVM) kernel extension. By using Trusted Firewall, logical partitions that are present on different VLANs of the same server can communicate by using the Shared Ethernet Adapter (SEA).   A logical partition that is enabled for VTPM has the Trusted Boot capability. Trusted Boot is an offering that is supported on the Power® Security and Compliance (PowerSC) Standard Edition. Trusted Boot is a feature of PowerSC. You can enable Trusted Boot in PowerVM. Trusted Boot uses the Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) software implementation on an AIX logical partition. PowerVM Express® Edition is designed for users looking for an introduction to more advanced virtualization features.   PowerVM Standard Edition includes features that are designed to allow businesses to increase system utilization; while helping to ensure that applications continue to get the resources they need.   Parent topic:          
 PowerVM Express Edition PowerVM® Express® Edition is designed for users looking for an introduction to more advanced virtualization features.  The  includes the following components of the  hardware feature:   technology  () N-Port ID Virtualization (NPIV)  To use the Express Edition, the system must be managed by the . Using the Express Edition, you can create up to two client logical partitions that use virtual Small Computer System Interface (SCSI), NPIV, and shared processors, also called  technology. To create more than two client logical partitions that use shared processors, virtual SCSI, or NPIV, you must purchase either the Standard Edition or the Enterprise Edition and enter the activation code.  An activation code is required to enable the  hardware feature. When you specify the feature with the initial system order, the firmware is activated to support the components of the feature. If you order the feature separately from the server, you can enter the code by using the . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Entering the activation code for  with the  You can enter the activation code for  by using the . The code level for the  must be at version 2.1.2, or later, to perform the following procedure.  Whether you need to enter an activation code depends on your edition of the  feature and the hardware on which you plan to enable it. The following table summarizes the requirements. Activation code requirements No activation code is required. The  activation code is required. The  activation code is required.  If you already have the Standard Edition enabled, you must enter a separate, additional activation code for the Enterprise Edition. For detailed information about the  feature, see . Before you start, verify that you have access to the .   To enter the activation code in the , complete the following tasks:  The Enter  Key window is displayed. You can now create more than two client logical partitions that use virtual I/O server or shared processors. Parent topic:  Next topic:     |      
 Viewing and updating the code level of the  management partition You can view and update the current code level of the  management partition. To update the management partition, complete the following steps: Related tasks:    |      
  overview The  hardware feature includes the following : The following table describes each component of the  feature and the editions in which each component is included. Component Description Editions Express Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition You can migrate an active or inactive , or  logical partition from one system to another by using . Enterprise Edition  Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Express Edition (, and VMControl) Standard Edition (, , and VMControl) Enterprise Edition (, , and VMControl)  technology You can allocate processors to logical partitions in increments of 0.01, which allows multiple logical partitions to share the processing power of the system. When the firmware is at level 7.6, or later, micropartitions can be defined as small as 0.05 of a processor and can be changed in increments as small as 0.01 of a processor. A maximum of 20 micropartitions can be created per core.   Express Edition  Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Express Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition You can share memory among logical partitions in a shared memory pool, by using .  Enterprise Edition Enterprise Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Shared storage pools provide distributed storage access to all  logical partitions in the cluster.  Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition Standard Edition Enterprise Edition You can share physical I/O resources on the server between client logical partitions by using . Express Edition Standard Edition  Enterprise Edition  The following table describes the  feature Feature Description With  Version 7.7.4, or later, and  processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.4, or later, you can enable Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) on an AIX logical partition. You can configure logical partitions on each server by using the , with each logical partition having its own unique VTPM. The VTPM software implementation checks system boot process, and in association with the AIX Trusted Execution technology provides security and assurance of the boot image on the disk, operating system, and application layers.  Trusted Firewall is a feature of PowerSC and you can enable Trusted Firewall in PowerVM. Trusted Firewall is supported on  Version 2.2.1.4, or later. With the Trusted Firewall feature, you can perform inter-VLAN routing functions by using the Security Virtual Machine (SVM) kernel extension. By using Trusted Firewall, logical partitions that are present on different VLANs of the same server can communicate by using the Shared Ethernet Adapter (SEA).   A logical partition that is enabled for VTPM has the Trusted Boot capability. Trusted Boot is an offering that is supported on the Power® Security and Compliance (PowerSC) Standard Edition. Trusted Boot is a feature of PowerSC. You can enable Trusted Boot in PowerVM. Trusted Boot uses the Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) software implementation on an AIX logical partition. PowerVM Express® Edition is designed for users looking for an introduction to more advanced virtualization features.   PowerVM Standard Edition includes features that are designed to allow businesses to increase system utilization; while helping to ensure that applications continue to get the resources they need.   Parent topic:          
 PowerVM Standard Edition  PowerVM® Standard Edition includes features that are designed to allow businesses to increase system utilization; while helping to ensure that applications continue to get the resources they need.   The  includes the following components of the  hardware feature:   technology  () Partition suspend and resume N-Port ID Virtualization (NPIV) Shared processor pools Shared storage pools Single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) Thin provisioning   In the  () environment, the  is disabled because the system is managed by the .  An activation code is required to enable the  hardware feature. When you specify the feature with the initial system order, the firmware is activated to support the components of the feature. If you order the feature separately from the server, you can enter the code by using the , . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Entering the activation code for  by using  Version 7 Use these instructions to enter the  activation code using the  () Version 7, or later.  If  is not enabled on your system, you can use the  to enter the activation code that you received when you ordered the feature. Use the following procedure to enter the activation code for the .  To enter your activation code, follow these steps:  For example, this might be the system on which you plan to install the , or it might be the system in which you plan to use the  technology.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to enter the  activation code. Parent topic:  Related information:         
  includes the following components of the  hardware feature:  technology  ()  On POWER7® processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.3, or later, you can evaluate  at no charge by using Trial . Trial  requires an activation code. You must have a valid license and an active Software Maintenance contract for PowerVM Standard Edition to use Trial Live Partition Mobility. Partition Suspend/Resume N-Port ID Virtualization (NPIV) Shared processor pools Shared storage pools Single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) Thin provisioning Trusted boot Power Virtualization Performance (PowerVP™) PowerVP requires firmware version 7.7, or later. .  An activation code is required to enable the  hardware feature. When you specify the feature with the initial system order, the firmware is activated to support the components of the feature. If you order the feature separately from the server, you can enter the code by using the , . This code differs from the PowerVM Standard Edition activation code. For example, you might have previously purchased the Standard Edition and enabled the feature on the system. Now you want the ability to move logical partitions from one system to another. , you must purchase the Enterprise Edition and enter the activation code for the Enterprise Edition. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Read about new or changed information in the PowerVM Editions topic collection since the previous update. You can enter the activation code for  by using the , or the  (). A Trial  code can be entered only by using the .  Power Integrated Facility for Linux (IFL) is an optional lower cost per processor core activation for Linux-only workloads on Power Systems. When you enable the  technology, you can configure multiple logical partitions to share system processing power. When you enable the  technology, you can configure multiple logical partitions to share system memory. Manage the  and client logical partitions by using the  (), and the  command-line interface. You can use the  (), a component of the  hardware feature, to manage your  and client logical partitions. , a component of the  hardware feature, provides the ability to move  logical partitions from one system to another. The mobility process transfers the system environment including the processor state, memory, attached virtual devices, and connected users. Find a list of command reference information for the  () and the . Find a list of release notes for different versions of  the .  Thin provisioning helps reduce the amount of unused storage allocated to applications or users. Thick provisioning helps reserve storage space for virtual disks, thus ensuring that there are no failures because of lack of storage space. With N_Port ID Virtualization (NPIV), you can configure the managed system so that multiple logical partitions can access independent physical storage through the same physical Fibre Channel adapter.  A shared storage pool provides distributed storage access to all   logical partitions in the cluster. Each cluster consists of one  VIOS logical partition.  You can assign priorities to partitions and the hypervisor allocates processing power as needed by the applications. This feature allows for automatic nondisruptive balancing of processing power between logical partitions assigned to shared pools resulting in increased throughput and the potential to reduce processor-based software licensing costs. This feature is supported on  and  processor-based servers.  A running  logical partition can be suspended along with its operating system and applications. When a logical partition is suspended, the state of the logical partition is saved on persistent storage, and the server resources that were in use by that logical partition are made available for use by other logical partitions. At a later time, the operation of the suspended logical partition and its applications can be resumed. Trusted Boot is a feature of PowerSC and you can enable Trusted Boot in PowerVM. You can use the Trusted Boot feature to confirm whether the operating system running on a logical partition has booted in a known and trusted state. Trusted Boot uses the Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) software implementation on an AIX logical partition.   Trusted Firewall is a feature of PowerSC and you can enable Trusted Firewall in PowerVM. You can use the Trusted Firewall feature to provide a virtual firewall that allows network filtering and control within the local server. The virtual firewall improves performance and reduces the consumption of network resources by allowing direct and secure network traffic between logical partitions that are present on different VLANs of the same server.  Power Virtualization Performance (PowerVP) is a performance monitoring solution that provides detailed and real-time information about virtualized workloads that are running on Power Systems. You can use PowerVP to understand  how virtual workloads use resources, to analyze performance bottlenecks, and to make informed choices about resource allocation and virtualized machine placement. SR-IOV is a PCI-Express standard for I/O virtualization. An SR-IOV capable adapter can be assigned to a logical partition to run in the dedicated mode, or assigned to the hypervisor to run in the shared mode. When the adapter is assigned to the hypervisor and is configured in the shared mode, the adapter is shared by multiple operating systems at the same time.         
 What's new in PowerVM Editions Read about new or changed information in the PowerVM® Editions topic collection since the previous update. April 2014The following information is new for Single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) feature: November 2013The following information is new for the PowerVP™™ tool: The following information is new for the Integrated Facility for Linux (IFL) feature:   June 2013The following information is new for the Remote Restart feature: May 2012The following information is new for the Trusted Firewall feature:  December 2011The following information is new or updated for shared storage pools:  October 2011The following information is new or updated for the Trusted Boot feature:  Parent topic:          
 Single root I/O virtualization Single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) is a Peripheral component interconnect express (PCIe) standard architecture that define extensions to PCIe specifications to enable multiple logical partitions running simultaneously within a system to share PCIe devices. The architecture define virtual replicas of PCI functions known as virtual functions (VF). A Logical partition can connect directly to an SR-IOV adapter VF without going through a virtual intermediary (VI) such as a  or . This provides for a low latency and lower CPU utilization alternative by avoiding a VI. SR-IOV capable adapter might be assigned to a logical partition in a dedicated or shared mode. The management console provides an interface to enable SR-IOV adapter in a shared mode. An SR-IOV capable adapter in a shared mode is assigned to the  for management of the adapter and provisioning of adapter resources to logical partitions. The management console, in conjunction with the , provides the ability to mange the adapter's physical Ethernet ports and logical ports. To connect a logical partition to an SR-IOV Ethernet adapter VF, create an SR-IOV Ethernet logical port for the logical partition. When you create an Ethernet logical port for a partition, select the adapter physical Ethernet port to connect to the logical partition and specify the resource requirements for the logical port. Each logical partition can have one or more logical ports from each SR-IOV adapter in shared mode. The number of logical ports for all configured logical partitions cannot exceed the adapter logical port limit. To create an SR-IOV Ethernet logical port for a logical partition, use one of the following methods: Create an Ethernet logical port when you create a partition. Add an Ethernet logical port to a partition profile, shutdown the logical partition, and reactivate the logical partition by using the partition profile. Add an Ethernet logical port to a running logical partition by using dynamic partitioning. An SR-IOV adapter does not support  unless the VF is assigned to a shared Ethernet adapter. When you activate a logical partition, the logical ports in the partition profile are considered to be a required resource. If the physical adapter resources required by the logical port are not available, the logical partition cannot be activated. However, logical ports can be removed dynamically from other logical partition to make the required resources available to the logical partition that is activated. For an SR-IOV adapter in shared mode, the physical port switch mode can be configured in Virtual Ethernet Bridge (VEB) or Virtual Ethernet Port Aggregator (VEPA) mode. If the switch mode is configured in VEB mode, the traffic between the logical ports are not visible to the external switch. If the switch mode is configured in VEPA mode, the traffic between logical ports must be routed back to the physical port by the external switch. Before enabling the physical port switch in VEPA mode, ensure that the switch attached to the physical port is supported and is enabled for reflective relay. When you create an Ethernet logical port, you can select a promiscuous permission to allow the logical port to be configured as a promiscuous logical port by the logical partition. A promiscuous logical port receives all unicast traffic with a destination address that does not match the address of one of the other logical ports configured for the same physical port. The number of logical ports configured for logical partitions, active or shutdown, on a physical port will be limited to minimize potential performance impact due to overhead associated with promiscuous logical ports. The management console indicates the number of logical ports on the physical port that are allowed to have a promiscuous permission setting. When bridging between virtual Ethernet adapters and a physical Ethernet adapter, an SR-IOV Ethernet logical port might be used as the physical Ethernet adapter to access the outside network. When a logical port is configured as the physical Ethernet adapter for bridging, the logical port must have the promiscuous permission enabled. For example, if you create a logical port for a  logical partition and to use the logical port as the physical adapter for the shared Ethernet adapter, you must select the promiscuous permission for the logical port. Configuration requirements Consider the following configuration requirements when an Ethernet logical port is used as the physical Ethernet device for shared Ethernet adapter bridging: When there is a requirement to divert all network traffic to flow through an external switch, consider the following requirements:The  virtual switch must be set to the VEPA switching mode and the SR-IOV Ethernet adapter physical port switch mode must also be set to the VEPA switching mode. In addition, the logical port is the only logical port configured for the physical port. When you create an Ethernet logical port you can also specify a capacity value. The capacity value specifies the desired capacity of the logical port as a percentage of the capability of the physical port. The capacity level value determines the amount of resources that are assigned to the logical port from the physical port. The assigned resources determine the minimum capability of the logical port. The physical port resources that are not used by other logical ports might be temporarily used by the logical port when the logical port exceeds its assigned resources to allow additional capability. System or network limitations can influence the amount of throughput a logical port can actually achieve. The maximum capacity that can be assigned to a logical port is 100%. The sum of the capacity values for all the configured logical ports on a physical port must be less than or equal to 100%. To minimize the configuration effort while adding additional logical ports, you can reserve some of the physical port capacity for additional logical ports. When an Ethernet logical port is used as a physical adapter for bridging virtual Ethernet adapters, the parameter values such as the number of client virtual adapters and expected throughput must be considered when choosing a capacity value.  The Ethernet logical ports allow the logical port to run diagnostics on the adapter and physical port. Select this permission only while running the diagnostics by using the logical port. I/O adapters that are configured to run in Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) mode are managed by system firmware and adapter firmware. Both system firmware and adapter firmware for the SR-IOV adapter are downloaded with the normal system firmware updates, but must be manually applied to the system and adapter by using the Hardware Management Console (HMC) command line. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Updating the SR-IOV adapter firmware I/O adapters that are configured to run in Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) mode are managed by system firmware and adapter firmware. Both system firmware and adapter firmware for the SR-IOV adapter are downloaded with the normal system firmware updates, but must be manually applied to the system and adapter by using the Hardware Management Console (HMC) command line. The system firmware that supports SR-IOV adapters includes the system firmware that is used for configuring and managing the adapter and the I/O adapter firmware. These types of SR-IOV firmware are automatically updated to the current level of the adapter firmware that is available when the adapter is configured to run in SR-IOV mode.  They are also updated automatically during maintenance operations, such as when the adapter is stopped or replaced. The update process for the SR-IOV adapters is similar to the update process of other system firmware. If you update the overall system firmware, the system firmware update might contain system firmware for the SR-IOV adapters, adapter firmware updates, or both. Adapters that are configured in SR-IOV mode are not updated automatically to use the new firmware updates, because of a temporary I/O outage that occurs when the firmware is updated. This outage lasts approximately 30 seconds when you update only the system firmware, and approximately 2.5 minutes when you update both the system firmware and the adapter firmware.  You can manually activate the available SR-IOV firmware updates by using the HMC command line. To activate firmware updates, complete the following steps: This procedure only applies to the following IBM® POWER7® processor-based servers:IBM Power® 770 () IBM Power 780 ()  ()  startdump -m system_name -t resource -r "sriovdebug -fwinfo"  The output is sent to a dump file in the  directory that is titled . The contents of the file contains a section of information for each adapter that is running in SR-IOV mode. The section for each adapter is identified by its . Use the following list to determine the state of the updates for each adapter that is listed.No updates are available for an adapter when the following conditions are met:There is text at the end of the command output for that adapter that states there are no adapter system firmware updates for the adapter in the specified location. The version number that is displayed in the Current Version running output for that adapter is the same as the version number that is displayed in the Adjunct Firmware image output for that adapter. System adapter firmware updates are available for an adapter when the text at the end of the command output for the adapter states that there are system adapter firmware updates for the adapter in the specified location. Adapter firmware updates are available for an adapter when the value of the Current version running for that adapter is not the same as the value of the Adjunct Firmware image for that adapter. If updates are available, you can update the system firmware and the adapter firmware or only the system firmware. You can also update all of the adapters at the same time, or specify a single adapter to update.  To update the system firmware and the adapter firmware for an SR-IOV adapter, enter one of the following commands. Updating the system firmware and the adapter firmware results in a nominal 2.5 minute I/O outage of the adapter during the update. startdump -m system_name -t resource -r "sriov all updateadapter"This command updates the system firmware and adapter firmware for all of the adapters. startdump -m system_name -t resource -r "sriov slot_location_code updateadapter"This command updates the system firmware and adapter firmware only for the adapter that is specified by the slot_location_code parameter. To update only the system firmware for the selected SR-IOV adapter or for all of your SR-IOV adapters, enter one of the following commands. Updating only the system firmware results in a nominal 30 second I/O outage for the adapter during the update.startdump -m system_name -t resource -r "sriov slot_location_code update"This command updates only the system firmware for the adapter that is specified by the slot_location_code parameter. startdump -m system_name -t resource -r "sriov all update"This command updates only the system firmware for all of the adapters.  startdump -m system_name -t resource -r "sriovdebug -fwinfo"  The output is sent to a dump file in the  directory that is titled . The contents of the file contains a section of information for each adapter that is running in SR-IOV mode. The section for each adapter is identified by its . The output of the command displays the updated information about the SR-IOV adapters. Depending on which firmware you updated, the adapters with the updated firmware satisfy either the criteria of no available updates or the criterion of having only available adapter firmware updates. These criteria are shown in step . Parent topic:          
 Virtual networking Learn about virtual Ethernet, , link aggregation, ,  failover, and VLAN. Virtual Ethernet technology facilitates IP-based communication between logical partitions on the same system by using software switch systems that are capable of virtual local area networks (VLANs). Using  technology, logical partitions can communicate with other systems outside the hardware unit without assigning physical Ethernet slots to the logical partitions. Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) is the next generation of Internet Protocol and is gradually replacing the current Internet standard, Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4). The key IPv6 enhancement is the expansion of the IP address space from 32 bits to 128 bits, providing virtually unlimited, unique IP addresses. Virtual Ethernet adapters allow client logical partitions to send and receive network traffic without having a physical Ethernet adapter. Virtual local area networks (VLAN) allow the physical network to be logically segmented. With Shared Ethernet Adapters on the  logical partition, virtual Ethernet adapters on client logical partitions can send and receive outside network traffic. Single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) is a Peripheral component interconnect express (PCIe) standard architecture that define extensions to PCIe specifications to enable multiple logical partitions running simultaneously within a system to share PCIe devices. The architecture define virtual replicas of PCI functions known as virtual functions (VF). A Logical partition can connect directly to an SR-IOV adapter VF without going through a virtual intermediary (VI) such as a  or . This provides for a low latency and lower CPU utilization alternative by avoiding a VI. Parent topic:          
 Unlike most other types of I/O devices, you can never assign the HEA itself to a logical partition. Instead, multiple logical partitions can connect directly to the HEA and use the HEA resources. This allows these logical partitions to access external networks through the HEA without having to go through an Ethernet bridge on another logical partition. To connect a logical partition to an HEA, you must create a logical  (LHEA) for the logical partition. A logical  (LHEA) is a representation of a physical HEA on a logical partition. An LHEA appears to the operating system as if it were a physical Ethernet adapter, just as a virtual Ethernet adapter appears as if it were a physical Ethernet adapter. When you create an LHEA for a logical partition, you specify the resources that the logical partition can use on the actual physical HEA. Each logical partition can have one LHEA for each physical HEA on the managed system. Each LHEA can have one or more logical ports, and each logical port can connect to a physical port on the HEA. You can create an LHEA for a logical partition using either of the following methods: You can add the LHEA to a partition profile, shut down the logical partition, and reactivate the logical partition using the partition profile with the LHEA. You can add the LHEA to a running logical partition using dynamic partitioning. This method can be used for  logical partitions only if you install the following operating systems on the logical partition:  version 4.6, or later  version 5.1, or later  Version 10, or later  Version 11, or later When you activate a logical partition, the LHEAs in the partition profile are considered to be required resources. If the physical HEA resources required by the LHEAs are not available, then the logical partition cannot be activated. However, when the logical partition is active, you can remove any LHEAs you want from the logical partition.  After you create an LHEA for a logical partition, a network device is created in the logical partition. This network device is named  ethX on  logical partitions, where X represents sequentially assigned numbers. The user can then set up TCP/IP configuration like a physical Ethernet device to communicate with other logical partitions. You can configure a logical partition so that it is the only logical partition that can access a physical port of an HEA by specifying promiscuous mode for an LHEA that is assigned to the logical partition. When an LHEA is in promiscuous mode, no other logical partitions can access the logical ports of the physical port that is associated with the LHEA that is in promiscuous mode. You might want to configure a logical partition to promiscuous mode in the following situations: If you want to connect more than 16 logical partitions to each other and to an external network through a physical port on an HEA, you can create a logical port on a Virtual I/O Server and configure an Ethernet bridge between the logical port and a virtual Ethernet adapter on a virtual LAN. This allows all logical partitions with virtual Ethernet adapters on the virtual LAN to communicate with the physical port through the Ethernet bridge. If you configure an Ethernet bridge between a logical port and a virtual Ethernet adapter, the physical port that is connected to the logical port must have the following properties:The physical port must be configured so that the Virtual I/O Server is the promiscuous mode logical partition for the physical port. The physical port can have only one logical port. You want the logical partition to have dedicated access to a physical port. You want to use tools such as tcpdump or iptrace. A logical port can communicate with all other logical ports that are connected to the same physical port on the HEA. The physical port and its associated logical ports form a logical Ethernet network. Broadcast and multicast packets are distributed on this logical network as though it was a physical Ethernet network. You can connect up to 16 logical ports to a physical port using this logical network. By extension, you can connect up to 16 logical partitions to each other and to an external network through this logical network. The actual number of logical ports that you can connect to a physical port depends upon the Multi-Core Scaling value of the physical port group. It also depends on the number of logical ports that have been created for other physical ports within the physical port group. By default, the Multi-Core Scaling value of each physical port group is set to 4, which allows four logical ports to be connected to the physical ports in the physical port group. To allow up to 16 logical ports to be connected to the physical ports in the physical port group, you must change the Multi-Core Scaling value of the physical port group to 1 and restart the managed system.  You can set each logical port to restrict or allow packets that are tagged for specific VLANs. You can set a logical port to accept packets with any VLAN ID, or you can set a logical port to accept only the VLAN IDs that you specify. You can specify up to 20 individual VLAN IDs for each logical port.  The physical ports on an HEA are always configured on the managed system level. If you use an  to manage a system, you must use the  to configure the physical ports on any HEAs belonging to the managed system. Also, the physical port configuration applies to all logical partitions that use the physical port. (Some properties might require setup in the operating system as well. For example, the maximum packet size for a physical port on the HEA must be set on the managed system level using the . However, you must also set the maximum packet size for each logical port within the operating system.) By contrast, if a system is unpartitioned and is not managed by an , you can configure the physical ports on an HEA within the operating system as if the physical ports were ports on a regular physical Ethernet adapter. HEA hardware does not support half duplex mode.  You can change the properties of a logical port on an LHEA by using dynamic partitioning to remove the logical port from the logical partition. You can also add the logical port back to the logical partition using the changed properties. If the operating system of the logical partition does not support dynamic partitioning for LHEAs, and you want to change any logical port property other than the VLANs on which the logical port participates, you must set a partition profile for the logical partition so that the partition profile contains the wanted logical port properties, shut down the logical partition, and activate the logical partition using the new or changed partition profile.  If the operating system of the logical partition does not support dynamic partitioning for LHEAs, and you want to change the VLANs on which the logical port participates, you must remove the logical port from a partition profile belonging to the logical partition, shut down and activate the logical partition using the changed partition profile, add the logical port back to the partition profile using the changed VLAN configuration, and shut down and activate the logical partition again using the changed partition profile. Parent topic:          
 Internet Protocol version 6 Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) is the next generation of Internet Protocol and is gradually replacing the current Internet standard, Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4). The key IPv6 enhancement is the expansion of the IP address space from 32 bits to 128 bits, providing virtually unlimited, unique IP addresses. IPv6 provides several advantages over IPv4, including expanded routing and addressing, routing simplification, header format simplification, improved traffic control, autoconfiguration, and security. For more information about IPv6, see the following resources: :  :   For more information about IPv6 on the  operating system, see the documentation for the  operating system. Parent topic:          
 Link aggregation or Etherchannel devices For example, ent0 and ent1 adapters can be aggregated to the ent3 adapter. The system considers these aggregated adapters as one adapter, and all adapters in the link aggregation device are given the same hardware address. Therefore, they are treated by remote systems as if they were one adapter. Link aggregation can provide increased redundancy because individual links might fail. The link aggregation device can automatically fail over to another adapter in the device to maintain connectivity. For example, if the ent0 adapter fails, the packets are automatically sent on the next available adapter, ent1, without disruption to existing user connections. The ent0 adapter automatically returns to service on the link aggregation device when it recovers. You can configure a  to use a link aggregation, or Etherchannel, device as the physical adapter. Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Client logical partitions This topic includes redundancy considerations for client logical partitions. MPIO, , and mirroring for the client logical partition are discussed. View Multipath I/O (MPIO) information for client logical partitions. Achieve mirroring for client logical partitions by using two virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapters. Learn about PowerHA SystemMirror in the .  failover provides redundancy by configuring a backup  on a different  logical partition that can be used if the primary  fails. The network connectivity in the client logical partitions continues without disruption. Learn about configuring shared Ethernet adapters (SEA) with load sharing to share the workload between the primary and backup SEA. Parent topic:          
 Multipath I/O View Multipath I/O (MPIO) information for client logical partitions. Multiple virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) or adapters in a client logical partition can access the same disk through multiple  logical partitions. This section describes a virtual SCSI multipath device configuration. If correctly configured, the client recognizes the disk as a multipath device. If you are using  technology (or shared memory), you can also use a multipath configuration to enable two paging VIOS logical partitions to access common paging space devices. Not all virtual SCSI devices are capable of MPIO. To create an MPIO configuration, the exported device at the  must conform to the following rules: The device must be backed by a physical volume. Logical volume-backed virtual SCSI devices are not supported in an MPIO configuration. The device must be accessible from multiple  logical partitions. The device must be an MPIO-capable device.  MPIO-capable devices are those that contain a unique identifier (UDID) or IEEE volume identifier. For instructions about how to determine whether disks have a UDID or IEEE volume identifier, see . When setting up an MPIO configuration for virtual SCSI devices on the client logical partition, you must consider the reservation policy of the device on the Virtual I/O Server. To use an MPIO configuration at the client, none of the virtual SCSI devices on the Virtual I/O Server can be reserving the virtual SCSI device. Ensure the reserve_policy attribute of the device is set to no_reserve.  Failover is the only supported behavior for MPIO virtual SCSI disks on the client logical partition. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related reference:         
 Mirroring for client logical partitions Achieve mirroring for client logical partitions by using two virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapters. The client partition can mirror its logical volumes using two virtual SCSI client adapters. Each of these adapters should be assigned to separate  partitions. The two physical disks are each attached to a separate  partition and made available to the client partition through a virtual SCSI server adapter. This configuration protects virtual disks in a client partition against the failure of any of the following:  One physical disk One physical adapter One  The performance of your system might be impacted when using a RAID 1 configuration. Parent topic:          
 Identifying exportable disks To export a physical volume as a virtual device, the physical volume must have an IEEE volume attribute, a unique identifier (UDID), or a physical identifier (PVID). To identify exportable disks, complete the following steps:  lsdev -dev hdiskX -attr  Disks with an IEEE volume attribute identifier have a value in the ieee_volname field.  Output similar to the following is displayed:... cache_method   fast_write                      Write Caching method    False ieee_volname   600A0B800012DD0D00000AB441ED6AC IEEE Unique volume name    False lun_id         0x001a000000000000              Logical Unit Number    False ...  If the ieee_volname field does not appear, then the device does not have an IEEE volume attribute identifier.    Output similar to the following is displayed: CuAt: 	name = "hdisk1" 	attribute = "unique_id" 	value = "2708ECVBZ1SC10IC35L146UCDY10-003IBXscsi" 	type = "R" 	generic = "" 	rep = "nl" 	nls_index = 79 CuAt: 	name = "hdisk2" 	attribute = "unique_id" 	value = "210800038FB50AST373453LC03IBXscsi" 	type = "R" 	generic = "" 	rep = "nl" 	nls_index = 79 Devices in the list that are accessible from other  partitions can be used in virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) MPIO configurations.  lspv The disks and their respective PVIDs are listed. Output similar to the following is displayed:NAME        PVID                    VG       STATUS hdisk0      00c5e10c1608fd80        rootvg   active hdisk1      00c5e10cf7eb2195        rootvg   active hdisk2      00c5e10c44df5673        None			 hdisk3      00c5e10cf3ba6a9a        None			 hdisk4      none                    None    chdev -dev hdiskX -attr pv=yes Parent topic:          
 Configuring virtual SCSI on the  You can configure virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) devices by deploying a system plan, creating volume groups and logical volumes, and configuring the  SCSI-2 reserve functions. Provisioning virtual disk resources occurs on the . Physical disks owned by the  can either be exported and assigned to a client logical partition as a whole or can be partitioned into parts, such as logical volumes or files. These logical volumes and files can be exported as virtual disks to one or more client logical partitions.    The SCSI client adapter is linked to a particular virtual SCSI server adapter in the  logical partition. The client logical partition accesses its assigned disks through the virtual SCSI client adapter. The  client adapter sees standard SCSI devices and LUNs through this virtual adapter. Assigning disk resources to a SCSI server adapter in the  effectively allocates resources to a SCSI client adapter in the client logical partition. For information about SCSI devices that you can use, see the  website. Creating the virtual target device on the  maps the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter with the file, logical volume, or physical disk. You can create a logical volume storage pool on a  using the  or the  and  commands. You can create a file storage pool on a  using the  and  commands. You can create the virtual media repository on a  with the  command. You can create logical volumes and volume groups on a  using the  and  commands. Understand the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) setup requirements to support applications using SCSI reserve and release. This topic describes how to export a Peer-to-Peer Remote Copy (PPRC) secondary device to a client partition. You can perform this task by creating a virtual target device with the PPRC secondary device as a backing device. To export a physical volume as a virtual device, the physical volume must have an IEEE volume attribute, a unique identifier (UDID), or a physical identifier (PVID). Parent topic:          
 Creating the virtual target device on the   Creating the virtual target device on the  maps the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter with the file, logical volume, or physical disk.   you can export the following types of physical devices: Virtual SCSI disk backed by a physical volume Virtual SCSI disk backed by a logical volume Virtual SCSI disk backed by a file  Virtual SCSI optical backed by a physical optical device Virtual SCSI optical backed by a file Virtual SCSI tape backed by a physical tape device After a virtual device is assigned to a client partition, the  must be available before the client logical partitions can access it. You can create a virtual target device on a  that maps the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter to a physical disk, tape, or physical optical device, or to a logical volume that is based on a volume group. You can create a virtual target device on a  that maps the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter to a file or a logical volume that is based on a storage pool. You can create a virtual target device on a  that maps the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter to a file-backed virtual optical device. In some configurations, you must consider the reservation policy of the device on the  (VIOS). Parent topic:          
 Creating a virtual target device on a  that maps to a physical or logical volume, tape or physical optical device You can create a virtual target device on a  that maps the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter to a physical disk, tape, or physical optical device, or to a logical volume that is based on a volume group. The following procedure can be repeated to provide additional virtual disk storage to any client logical partition.  Before you start, ensure the following statements are true: At least one physical volume, tape, or optical device, or logical volume is defined on the . For information, see . The virtual adapters for the  and the client logical partitions are created. This usually occurs during the creation of the logical partition profile. For information about creating the logical partition, see Installing the . Be aware of the maximum transfer size limitation when you use  clients and physical devices. If you have an existing and active  client, and you want to add another virtual target device to the virtual SCSI server adapter used by that client, ensure that the max_transfer attribute is the same size or larger than the devices already in use.  If you are using the , Version 7 release 3.4.2 or later, you can use the  graphical interface to create a virtual target device on the .  To create a virtual target device that maps a virtual SCSI server adapter to a physical device or logical volume, complete the following steps from the  command-line interface:  name     status     description ent3     Available  Virtual I/O Ethernet Adapter (l-lan) vhost0   Available  Virtual SCSI Server Adapter vhost1   Available  Virtual SCSI Server Adapter vsa0     Available  LPAR Virtual Serial Adapter vtscsi0  Available  Virtual Target Device - Logical Volume vtscsi1  Available  Virtual Target Device - File-backed Disk vtscsi2  Available  Virtual Target Device - File-backed Disk  mkvdev -vdev TargetDevice -vadapter VirtualSCSIServerAdapter Where:TargetDevice is the name of the target device, as follows:To map a logical volume to the virtual SCSI server adapter, use the name of the logical volume. For example, lv_4G. To map a physical volume to the virtual SCSI server adapter, use hdiskx. For example, hdisk5. To map an optical device to the virtual SCSI server adapter, use cdx. For example, cd0. To map a tape device to a virtual SCSI adapter, use rmtx.  For example, rmt1. VirtualSCSIServerAdapter is the name of the virtual SCSI server adapter.  If needed, use the  and  commands to determine the target device and virtual SCSI server adapter that you want to map to one another. The storage is available to the client logical partition either the next time it starts, or the next time the appropriate virtual SCSI client adapter is probed (on a  logical partition).  For example, running lsdev -virtual returns results similar to the following: name     status     description vhost3   Available  Virtual SCSI Server Adapter vsa0     Available  LPAR Virtual Serial Adapter vtscsi0  Available  Virtual Target Device - Logical Volume vttape0  Available  Virtual Target Device - Tape   For example, running lsmap -vadapter vhost3 returns results similar to the following:SVSA      Physloc                    Client PartitionID ------------------------------------------------------- vhost3    U9111.520.10DDEEC-V1-C20   0x00000000 VTD                     vtscsi0   Status                  Available LUN                     0x8100000000000000   Backing device          lv_4G Physloc The physical location is a combination of the slot number, in this case 20, and the logical partition ID. The storage is now available to the client logical partition either the next time it starts, or the next time the appropriate virtual SCSI client adapter is probed, or configured. If you later need to remove the virtual target device, you can do so by using the  command. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related information:         
 Logical volumes Understand how logical volumes can be exported to client partitions as virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) disks. A logical volume is a portion of a physical volume. A hierarchy of structures is used to manage disk storage. Each individual disk drive or LUN, called a physical volume, has a name, such as . Every physical volume in use either belongs to a volume group or is used directly for virtual storage. All of the physical volumes in a volume group are divided into physical partitions of the same size. The number of physical partitions in each region varies, depending on the total capacity of the disk drive. Within each volume group, one or more logical volumes are defined. Logical volumes are groups of information located on physical volumes. Data on logical volumes appears to the user to be contiguous but can be discontiguous on the physical volume. This allows logical volumes to be resized or relocated and to have their contents replicated. Each logical volume consists of one or more logical partitions. Each logical partition corresponds to at least one physical partition. Although the logical partitions are numbered consecutively, the underlying physical partitions are not necessarily consecutive or contiguous. After installation, the system has one volume group (the rootvg volume group) consisting of a base set of logical volumes required to start the system. You can use the commands described in the following table to manage logical volumes. Logical volume command Description Changes the characteristics of a logical volume. Copies the contents of a logical volume to a new logical volume. Increases the size of a logical volume. Displays information about the logical volume. Creates a logical volume. Creates a copy of a logical volume. Removes logical volumes from a volume group. Removes a copy of a logical volume. Creating one or more distinct volume groups rather than using logical volumes that are created in the rootvg volume group allows you to install any newer versions of the  while maintaining client data by exporting and importing the volume groups created for virtual I/O.  Logical volumes used as virtual disks must be less than 1 TB (where TB equals 1 099 511 627 776 bytes) in size. For best performance, avoid using logical volumes (on the ) as virtual disks that are mirrored or striped across multiple physical volumes. Find information about volume groups. This topic contains information about physical partitions. This topic contains information logical storage partitions. Find information about quorums. Parent topic:          
 Volume groups Find information about volume groups. A volume group is a type of storage pool that contains one or more physical volumes of varying sizes and types. A physical volume can belong to only one volume group per system. There can be up to 4096 active volume groups on the . When a physical volume is assigned to a volume group, the physical blocks of storage media on it are organized into physical partitions of a size determined by the system when you create the volume group. For more information, see . When you install the , the root volume group called rootvg is automatically created that contains the base set of logical volumes required to start the system logical partition.  The rootvg includes paging space, the journal log, boot data, and dump storage, each in its own separate logical volume. The rootvg has attributes that differ from user-defined volume groups. For example, the rootvg cannot be imported or exported. When using a command or procedure on the rootvg, you must be familiar with its unique characteristics. Command Description Activates a volume group Changes the attributes of a volume group Deactivates a volume group Exports the definition of a volume group Adds a physical volume to a volume group Imports a new volume group definition Displays information about a volume group Creates a volume group Removes a physical volume from a volume group Synchronizes logical volume copies that are not current Small systems might require only one volume group to contain all of the physical volumes (beyond the rootvg volume group). You can create separate volume groups to make maintenance easier because groups other than the one being serviced can remain active.  Because the rootvg must always be online, it contains only the minimum number of physical volumes necessary for system operation.  It is recommended that the rootvg not be used for client data. You can move data from one physical volume to other physical volumes in the same volume group by using the  command. This command allows you to free a physical volume so it can be removed from the volume group. For example, you could move data from a physical volume that is to be replaced. Parent topic:          
 Physical partitions This topic contains information about physical partitions. When you add a physical volume to a volume group, the physical volume is partitioned into contiguous, equal-sized units of space called physical partitions. A physical partition is the smallest unit of storage space allocation and is a contiguous space on a physical volume. Physical volumes inherit the volume group's physical partition size. Parent topic:          
 Logical partitions This topic contains information logical storage partitions. When you create a logical volume, you specify its size in megabytes or gigabytes. The system allocates the number of logical partitions that are required to create a logical volume of at least the specified size. A logical partition is one or two physical partitions, depending on whether the logical volume is defined with mirroring enabled. If mirroring is disabled, there is only one copy of the logical volume (the default). In this case, there is a direct mapping of one logical partition to one physical partition. Each instance, including the first, is called a copy.  Parent topic:          
 Quorums Find information about quorums. A quorum exists when a majority of Volume Group Descriptor Areas and Volume Group Status Areas (VGDA/VGSA) and their disks are active. A quorum ensures data integrity of the VGDA/VGSA in the event of a disk failure. Each physical disk in a volume group has at least one VGDA/VGSA. When a volume group is created onto a single disk, the volume group initially has two VGDA/VGSA on the disk. If a volume group consists of two disks, one disk still has two VGDA/VGSA, but the other disk has one VGDA/VGSA. When the volume group is made up of three or more disks, each disk is allocated just one VGDA/VGSA. A quorum is lost when enough disks and their VGDA/VGSA are unreachable so that a 51% majority of VGDA/VGSA no longer exists. When a quorum is lost, the volume group deactivates itself so that the disks are no longer accessible by the logical volume manager. This prevents further disk I/O to that volume group so that data is not lost or assumed to be written when physical problems occur. As a result of the deactivation, the user is notified in the error log that a hardware error has occurred and service must be performed.   A volume group that has been deactivated because its quorum has been lost can be reactivated by using the  command.  Parent topic:          
 Physical storage Learn more about physical storage, logical volumes, and the devices and configurations that are supported by the . Physical volumes can be exported to client partitions as virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) disks. The  () is capable of taking a pool of heterogeneous physical disk storage attached to its back end and exporting this as homogeneous storage in the form of SCSI disk LUNs. Understand how logical volumes can be exported to client partitions as virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) disks. A logical volume is a portion of a physical volume. The virtual media repository provides a single container to store and manage file-backed virtual optical media files. Media stored in the repository can be loaded into file-backed virtual optical devices for exporting to client partitions. Learn about using the  () and creating a clustering configuration. Learn about logical volume storage pools and file storage pools. Optical devices can be exported by the . This topic gives information about what types of optical devices are supported. Tape devices can be exported by the . This topic gives information about what types of tape devices are supported. Parent topic:          
 Physical volumes Physical volumes can be exported to client partitions as virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) disks. The  () is capable of taking a pool of heterogeneous physical disk storage attached to its back end and exporting this as homogeneous storage in the form of SCSI disk LUNs. The  must be able to accurately identify a physical volume each time it boots, even  if an event such as a storage area network (SAN) reconfiguration or adapter change has taken place. Physical volume attributes, such as the name, address, and location, might change after the system reboots due to SAN reconfiguration. However, the  must be able to recognize that this is the same device and update the virtual device mappings. Hence, to export a physical volume as a virtual device, the physical volume must have either a unique identifier (UDID), a physical identifier (PVID), or an IEEE volume attribute. For instructions about determine whether your disks have one of these identifiers, see . The following commands are used to manage physical volumes. Physical volume command Description Displays information about physical volumes within the  logical partition. Moves allocated physical partitions from one physical volume to one or more other physical volumes. Parent topic:          
 Virtual media repository The virtual media repository provides a single container to store and manage file-backed virtual optical media files. Media stored in the repository can be loaded into file-backed virtual optical devices for exporting to client partitions. Only one repository can be created within a . The virtual media repository is available with  Version 1.5 or later.  The virtual media repository is created and managed using the following commands. Command Description Changes the characteristics of the virtual media repository Changes the characteristics of a virtual optical media Loads file-backed virtual optical media into a file-backed virtual optical device Displays information about the virtual media repository Displays information about file-backed virtual optical devices Creates the virtual media repository Creates file-backed virtual optical devices Creates file-backed virtual optical media Removes the virtual media repository Removes file-backed virtual optical media Unloads file-backed virtual optical media from a file-backed virtual optical device Parent topic:          
 Clusters Learn about using the  () and creating a clustering configuration. On  Version 2.2.0.11, Fix Pack 24, Service Pack 1, you can create a  that consists of only one  partition that is connected to the same shared storage pool. On  Version 2.2.2.0, or later, a cluster consists of up to 16 networked  partitions. Thus, a  consists of  logical partition with a shared storage pool that provides distributed storage access to the  logical partition in the cluster. Each  requires a separate repository disk and shared storage pool disks.  logical partition within a  must have access to all the physical volumes in a shared storage pool.  You can create and manage clusters by using the commands in the following table. Command Description Provides  management and listing capabilities. Replaces the repository disk. The following table lists the scalability limits for clusters in the  Version 2.2.2.0, or later: Component Minimum value Maximum value Number of  systems in a cluster 1 16 Number of physical disks in the shared storage pool 1 1024 Number of logical unit mappings in the shared storage pool 1 8192 Number of client logical partitions per  1 250 Storage capacity of physical disks in the shared storage pool 5 GB 16 TB Storage capacity of the shared storage 5 GB 512 TB Storage capacity of a logical unit in the shared storage 1 GB 4 TB Number of repository disks 1 1 Mirror copies 1 2 Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Replacing a repository disk On the  () Version 2.2.2.0, you can replace a repository disk by using the  command-line interface. You can replace the repository disk that is used to store cluster configuration information thereby increasing cluster resiliency. The replace operation works on a functional or failed repository disk. When the repository disk fails, the cluster remains operational. While the repository disk is in a failed state, all requests for cluster configuration fail. After you replace the failed disk, the cluster will be fully functional. As part of the replace operation, the cluster configuration information is stored on the new repository disk. The following are the requirements that must be met:The new repository disk must be at least the same size as the original disk. The  logical partitions in the cluster must be at Version 2.2.2.0, or later.  In the following example, the hdisk1 repository disk is replaced with the hdisk5 repository disk.chrepos -n -r +hdisk5 -hdisk1   Parent topic:          
 Managing a  by using the  command line You can use the command-line interface on the  () to manage a .  To add or remove devices in a cluster, you must use the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of the device. You can create a  with a single  logical partition by using the  command-line interface. On the  () Version 2.2.2.0, you can replace a repository disk by using the  command-line interface. You can add a  logical partition to a  by using the  command-line interface. You can remove a  logical partition from a  by using the  command-line interface. You can delete a  by using the  () command-line interface. With the  () Version 2.2.2.0, or later, you can migrate an existing cluster from Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4) to Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6). Parent topic:          
 Creating a  with a single  logical partition You can create a  with a single  logical partition by using the  command-line interface. Before you start, ensure that the following requirements are satisfied: Log in to the viosA1  logical partition by using the  user ID, which provides a restricted Korn shell environment. Locate the physical volumes to be used for the clusterA cluster. For example, entering the lspv -free command returns results similar to the following:NAME      PVID                    SIZE (megabytes) ------------------------------------------------------- hdisk0    none                     17408 hdisk2    000d44516400a5c2         20480 hdisk3    000d4451605a0d99         20482 hdisk4    none                     10250 hdisk5    none                     20485 hdisk6    none                     20490 hdisk7    none                     20495 hdisk8    none                     20500 hdisk9    none                     20505 The  command displays a list of physical volumes along with the ID. The physical volume ID indicates that the device might be in use. The system administrator must ensure that the physical volume is not in use before adding it to the cluster repository or shared storage pool. For example, you can select the hdisk9 physical volume for the repository, and hdisk5 and hdisk7 physical volumes for the storage pool. To create a  with one  logical partition, complete the following steps:  In the following example, the storage pool for the clusterA  is named poolA.cluster -create -clustername clusterA -repopvs hdisk9 -spname poolA -sppvs  hdisk5  hdisk7 -hostname viosA1_HostName    For example, entering the lspv command returns results similar to the following:NAME          PVID                    VG                   STATUS --------------------------------------------------------------------- hdisk0        none                     None					        hdisk1        000d4451b445ccc7         rootvg              active hdisk2        000d44516400a5c2         20480					      hdisk3        000d4451605a0d99         10250					      hdisk4        none                     20485					      hdisk5        none                     20490					      hdisk6        none                     20495					      hdisk7        none                     20500					      hdisk8        none                     20505					      hdisk9        none                     caavg_private       active  The disk for the repository has a volume group name caavg_private. Volume group commands such as  and  must not be run on the repository disk.  For example, entering the lspv -free command returns results similar to the following: NAME      PVID                    SIZE (megabytes) ------------------------------------------------------- hdisk0    none                     17408 hdisk2    000d44516400a5c2         20480 hdisk3    000d4451605a0d99         20482 hdisk4    none                     10250 hdisk6    none                     20490 hdisk8    none                     20500  For example, entering the lspv -clustername clusterA -sp poolA command returns results similar to the following: PV NAME      SIZE(MB)  	  	 PVUDID    ------------------------------------------------------- hdisk5       20480         200B75CXHW1026D07210790003IBMfcp         hdisk7       20495         200B75CXHW1020207210790003IBMfcp  For example, entering the cluster -status -clustername clusterA command returns results similar to the following:Cluster Name         State clusterA             OK     Node Name        MTM           Partition Num  State  Pool State     viosA1           9117-MMA0206AB272        15  OK     OK To list cluster configuration information, use the  command. For example, entering the  command returns results similar to the following:Calling node query for all nodes Node query number of nodes examined: 1 Node name: viosA1 Cluster shorthand id for node: 1 uuid for node: ff8dd204-2de1-11e0-beef-00145eb8a94c State of node:  UP  NODE_LOCAL Smoothed rtt to node: 0 Mean Deviation in network rtt to node: 0 Number of zones this node is a member in: 0 Number of clusters node is a member in: 1 CLUSTER NAME       TYPE  SHID   UUID clusterA           local        a3fe209a-4959-11e0-809c-00145eb8a94c Number of points_of_contact for node: 0 Point-of-contact interface & contact state n/a  For more information, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Adding a  logical partition to a  You can add a  logical partition to a  by using the  command-line interface. To add a  logical partition to a :  cluster	-addnode -clustername clusterA 	-hostname viosA2 In this example, the viosA2  logical partition is added to the clusterA .  For example,cluster -status -clustername clusterA   lssp -clustername clusterA lssp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -bd lspv -clustername clusterA -sp poolA  In this example, the logical units added to the viosA1  logical partition must be visible. However, these logical units are not yet mapped to the virtual server adapters that are provided by the viosA2  logical partition. To map existing logical units to the virtual server adapters of the viosA2  logical partition (while logged in to the viosA2  logical partition) and to list the mappings, enter the following commands:mkbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -bd luA1 -vadapter vhost0 mkbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -bd luA2	-vadapter vhost1	 lsmap -clustername clusterA -all The client systems can now be reconfigured to accommodate the new mappings. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Removing a  logical partition from a  You can remove a  logical partition from a  by using the  command-line interface. After adding a logical partition to a  and enabling the client mapping to the same logical unit, you can remove the  logical partition from the . To remove a  logical partition from a :   For example, cluster	-rmnode -clustername clusterA -hostname viosA1  You cannot run this command on the  logical partition that is being removed.   lssp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -bd lssp -clustername clusterA lspv -clustername clusterA -sp poolA  If the  logical partition is mapped to a logical unit in the storage pool of the , removing that  logical partition from a  fails. To remove the logical partition, unmap the logical unit. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Unmapping a logical unit You can unmap a logical unit by using the  () command-line interface. To unmap logical units from the virtual server adapter, complete the following steps:  SVSA            Physloc                                      Client Partition ID --------------- -------------------------------------------- ------------------ vhost0          U8203.E4A.10D4451-V4-C12                     0x00000002 VTD                   vtscsi0 Status                Available LUN                   0x8100000000000000 Backing device        testLU.b1277fffdd5f38acb365413b55e51638 Physloc                 Mirrored              N/A VTD                   vtscsi1 Status                Available LUN                   0x8200000000000000 Backing device        test_LU.8f5a2c27dce01bf443383a01c7f723d0 Physloc                 Mirrored              N/A  In the following example, the mapping for the luA2 logical unit is removed.rmbdsp -vtd vtscsi1 Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Managing logical units by using the  command line You can use the command-line interface on the  () to manage logical units in shared storage pools.  You can provision client partitions with logical unit storage by using the command-line interface on the  (). You can unmap a logical unit by using the  () command-line interface. You can remove logical units from the shared storage pool by using the  () command-line interface.  Parent topic:          
 Provisioning client partitions with logical unit storage You can provision client partitions with logical unit storage by using the command-line interface on the  (). You can create logical units and assign the logical units to virtual server adapters by using the  () command-line interface. You can enable the logical unit backed storage by using the  () command-line interface. Parent topic:          
 Creating logical units You can create logical units and assign the logical units to virtual server adapters by using the  () command-line interface. A logical unit provides the backing storage for the virtual volume of a client partition. By using the following procedure, you can assign a logical unit for each client partition from the shared storage pool of a . Subsequently, you can map the logical unit to the virtual server adapter associated with the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter of the client partition by using the  ().  When the mapping operations are complete, the logical unit path is similar to the following example: SAN Storage <=> poolA <=> luA1 <=> viosA1 vtscsi0 <=> viosA1 vhost0 <=> client1 vscsi0 <=> client hdisk0.  A single logical unit can be mapped by multiple virtual server adapters, and thus, accessed by multiple client partitions. However, this mapping typically requires either an additional software layer such as a database management system or the use of the Persistent Reserves standard to manage access to the shared logical unit. A logical unit can be mapped from multiple  partitions to a single virtual client.   To create logical units and assign the logical units to virtual server adapters, complete the following steps:  For example, entering the lsmap -all command returns results similar to the following:SVSA            Physloc                              Client Partition ID -------------------------------------------------------------------------- vhost0          U8203.E4A.10D4451-V4-C12             0x00000000 VTD             NO VIRTUAL TARGET DEVICE FOUND SVSA            Physloc                              Client Partition ID -------------------------------------------------------------------------- vhost1          U8203.E4A.10D4451-V4-C13             0x00000000 Where, Physloc identifies the  virtual server adapter related to the  property for the viosA1  logical partition illustrated in the following figure. Where:-C12 of the vhost0 virtual SCSI adapter physloc corresponds to the server SCSI adapter ID 12, which maps to virtual SCSI adapter 4 on the client1 client partition with ID 2 -C13 of the vhost1 virtual SCSI adapter physloc corresponds to the server SCSI adapter ID 13, which maps to virtual SCSI adapter 3 on the client2 client partition with ID 7 The virtual target devices (VTD) also consist of a  field. However, the  field is empty for VTDs because the HMC property is not applicable to a VTD.  For example:The luA1 logical unit is created in the poolA storage pool of the clusterA , with  and an initial provisional size of 100 MB.mkbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA 100M -bd luA1 The luA3 logical unit is created in the poolA storage pool of the clusterA , with thick-provisioning and an initial provisional size of 100 MB.mkbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA 100M -bd luA3 -thick  For example:The luA1 logical unit is  and mapped to the vscsi0 virtual server adapter associated with the client1 client partition, which the  properties and the  command indicate as vhost0.mkbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -bd luA1 -vadapter vhost0 The luA3 logical unit is thick-provisioned and mapped to the vscsi0 virtual server adapter associated with the client1 client partition, which the  properties and the  command indicate as vhost0.mkbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -bd luA3 -vadapter vhost0 -thick  For example: The luA2 logical unit is created in the poolA storage pool of the clusterA , with  and an initial provisional size of 200 MB. The luA2 logical unit is then mapped to the vscsi0 virtual server adapter associated with the client2 client partition, which the  properties and the  command indicate as vhost1. mkbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA 200M -bd luA2 -vadapter vhost1 -tn vtscsi1  The luA4 logical unit is created in the poolA storage pool of the clusterA , with thick-provisioning and an initial provisional size of 200 MB. The luA4 logical unit is then mapped to the vscsi0 virtual server adapter associated with the client2 client partition, which the  properties and the  command indicate as vhost1. mkbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA 200M -bd luA4 -vadapter vhost1 -tn vtscsi1 -thick  The -tn vtscsiX option is not mandatory. If this option is omitted, a default value is used. By specifying the virtual target name, you can run the  command and search for information using the target name. In addition, you can map multiple logical units to the same virtual host adapter. The virtual target name is used to distinguish the mappings.  For example, entering the lssp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -bd command returns results similar to the following. Here, the logical unit is the backing device, or bd.LU Name   Size (MB)    ProvisionType   %Used Unused(mb) LU UDID ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- luA1      100          THIN            10%   90         258f9b298bc302d9c7ee368ff50d04e3 luA2      200          THIN            15%   170        7957267e7f0ae3fc8b9768edf061d2f8 luA3      100          THICK           5%    95         459f9b298bc302fc9c7ee368f50d04e3 luA4      200          THICK           0%    200        6657267e7d0ae3fc7b9768edf061d2d2 Entering the lsmap -all command returns results similar to the following: SVSA            Physloc                                      Client Partition ID -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- vhost0          U8203.E4A.10D4451-V4-C12                     0x00000002 VTD                   vtscsi0 Status                Available LUN                   0x8100000000000000 Backing device        lua1.b1277fffdd5f38acb365413b55e51638 Physloc                 Mirrored              N/A VTD                   vtscsi1 Status                Available LUN                   0x8200000000000000 Backing device        lua2.8f5a2c27dce01bf443383a01c7f723d0 Physloc                 Mirrored              N/A In the examples in this topic, the vscsi0 virtual client SCSI adapter on client partitions Client1 and Client2  was mapped to the logical units luA1 and luA2.  Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Enabling the logical unit backed storage You can enable the logical unit backed storage by using the  () command-line interface. To display the virtual physical volumes that the logical units represent in the client environments and enable the logical unit backed storage, complete the following steps:  cfgmgr lspv lsdev -c adapter -F 'name physloc' lsdev -t vdisk  -F 'name physloc'  The  command reassembles device configuration information and picks up the new mapping for the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter. The  and  commands on the client, and the  command on the  can be used to verify the association of the hdiskX physical volume and the vscsiX virtual SCSI adapter to the vhostY virtual server adapter on the  partition (where, X and Y are appropriate instance numbers). After the vscsiX to hdiskX mapping is verified, the normal volume group, file system management, and I/O can proceed on the client partitions, as if the hdiskX physical volume is another direct connection SCSI device. Other than establishing the client virtual physical volume association with a  path, no further action is required on the client. Hence, you can exit the client shell. These steps are unique to the  client. The  operating system also supports adding new storage devices dynamically. Run the following commands:ls -vscsi lsscsi echo "- - -" > /sys/class/scsi_host/hostX/scan lsscsi cat /sys/class/scsi_host/hostX/partition_name The  command displays all virtual SCSI host adapters. The  attribute displays the connected  partition. Replace hostX with the host number to which storage has been added. The  command displays all attached SCSI disks.  When new data is written to the hdiskX physical volume, the  logical partition monitors for overruns of threshold limits. A shell connection to the logical partition must be maintained to observe threshold alerts in the  error log. Alerts can also be captured by using management tools. The threshold limit can be changed to avoid or delay the alerts. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Removing logical units You can remove logical units from the shared storage pool by using the  () command-line interface.  Before removing the logical units from shared storage pools, you must delete the mapping of physical volumes by reconfiguring the clients that reference the logical unit path. To remove a logical unit from the shared storage pool, use the following commands, as applicable:To display logical unit information, run the  command. For example, entering the lssp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -bd command returns results similar to the following:LU Name   Size (MB)    ProvisionType   %Used Unused(mb) LU UDID ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- luA1      100          THIN            10%   90         258f9b298bc302d9c7ee368ff50d04e3 luA2      200          THIN            15%   170        7957267e7f0ae3fc8b9768edf061d2f8 luA3      100          THICK           5%    95         459f9b298bc302fc9c7ee368f50d04e3 luA4      200          THICK           0%    200        6657267e7d0ae3fc7b9768edf061d2d2 To remove a logical unit, run the  command. For example:rmbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -bd luA2  Returning a logical unit to the shared storage pool might cause a storage threshold transition alert. If the logical unit is still mapped to a different  logical partition, the  command fails. If the logical unit is only mapped to virtual server adapters on the same  logical partition on which you run the command, the mappings and the logical unit are deleted. To see the  logical partition that actually has the logical unit mapped, run the  command.   To remove one of the multiple logical units with the same name, specify the unique identifier of the logical unit. For example, when there is a second logical unit luA1, entering the following command removes that logical unit.rmbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -luudid 258f9b298bc302d9c7ee368ff50d04e3 To remove all the logical units from the shared storage pool, run the  command with the -all option.rmbdsp -clustername clusterA -sp poolA -all The shared storage pool is not removed when all the logical units are removed. All physical volumes previously added to the pool remain in the pool and cannot be removed. Delete the cluster to delete the default pool and recover the physical volumes.  To remove all the logical units, there must be no virtual target device assigned to any logical unit. Run the  command with the -vtd option on each virtual target device assigned to the logical units to ensure that no virtual target device is assigned to any logical unit. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Deleting a  You can delete a  by using the  () command-line interface.  You cannot restore a cluster if you delete the cluster. You cannot restore a  logical partition in a cluster if the  logical partition is removed from the cluster. Deleting a  fails if the  logical partition has any mappings to logical units in the shared storage pool or if there are any logical units within the shared storage pool. Before you perform the delete operation, remove all logical partition mappings and logical units. To delete a , including the physical volumes provisioned to its storage pool, complete the following steps:  For example, when you enter lspv -free, all the physical volumes should be displayed in the free physical volume list. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:         
 Getting started with shared storage pools by using the  command line Learn about using the  () command-line interface to manage shared storage pools. On  Version 2.2.0.11, Fix Pack 24, Service Pack 1, or later, you can create a clustering configuration. Each  has a default storage pool. You can use the  command-line interface to manage shared storage pools.   On  Version 2.2.0.11, Fix Pack 24, Service Pack 1, a  consists of only one  partition.  Version 2.2.1.0 supports only one cluster in a  partition.  On  Version 2.2.1.3, or later, a cluster consists of up to four networked  partitions.  On  Version 2.2.2.0, or later, a cluster consists of up to 16 networked  partitions. You can create a cluster with an Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) address configured on the  logical partition.  The following sections describe how you can create  To perform the shell command operations listed in the following sections on the , log in to the  by using the  user ID. Learn about configuring the system to create  () shared storage pools. You can use the command-line interface on the  () to manage a . You can use the command-line interface on the  () to manage shared storage pools. You can use the command-line interface on the  () to manage logical units in shared storage pools.  You can migrate the cluster that you created and configured on the  logical partition that has Version 2.2.0.11, Fix Pack 24, Service Pack 1 to the  logical partition that has Version 2.2.1.0. By performing this task, you can restore the previous shared storage pool mappings with a new shared storage pool and database versions. The  () Version 2.2.2.0 supports rolling updates for clusters. Parent topic:          
 Configuring the system to create shared storage pools Learn about configuring the system to create  () shared storage pools. Before creating shared storage pools, ensure that all logical partitions are preconfigured by using the  () as described in this topic. The following are the supported number of characters for the names:Cluster: 63 Storage pool: 127 Failure group: 63 Logical unit: 127 Configuring the  logical partitionConfigure 16  logical partition with the following characteristics:There must be at least one CPU and one physical CPU of entitlement. The logical partition must be configured as  logical partition. The logical partition must consist of at least 4 GB of memory. The logical partition must consist of at least one physical Fibre Channel adapter. The rootvg device for a  logical partition cannot be included in storage pool provisioning. The associated rootvg device must be installed with  Version 2.2.2.0, or later. The  logical partition must be configured with sufficient number of virtual server Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter connections required for the client logical partitions. The  logical partition in the cluster require access to all the SAN-based physical volumes in the shared storage pool of the .  logical partition must have a network connection either through an  or through a physical adapter. On  Version 2.2.2.0, clusters support virtual local area network (VLAN) tagging. In shared storage pools, the  must be in threaded mode. For more information, see .  You cannot use the logical units in a cluster as paging devices for  or Suspend/Resume features. Configuring client logical partitionsConfigure client logical partitions with the following characteristics: The client logical partitions must be configured as  or  client systems. They must have at least 1 GB of minimum memory. The associated rootvg device must be installed with the appropriate  or  system software. Each client logical partition must be configured with a sufficient number of virtual SCSI adapter connections to map to the virtual server SCSI adapter connections of the required  logical partitions. You can define more client logical partitions. Network addressing considerationsThe following are the network address considerations: Uninterrupted network connectivity is required for shared storage pool operations. The network interface that is used for the shared storage pool configuration must be on a highly reliable network, which is not congested. Ensure that both the forward and reverse lookup for the host name that is used by the  logical partition for clustering resolves to the same IP address. With the  Version 2.2.2.0, or later, clusters support Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) addresses. Therefore,  logical partitions in a cluster can have host names that resolve to an IPv6 address. To set up clusters on an IPv6 network, IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration is suggested. You can have a  logical partition configured with either IPv6 static configuration or IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration. A  logical partition that has both IPv6 static configuration and IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration is not supported in  Version 2.2.2.0. The host name of each  logical partition that belongs to the same cluster must resolve to the same IP address family, which is either Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4) or IPv6.  In a cluster configuration, you cannot change the host name of a  logical partition. To change the host name, perform the following options, as applicable:If there are two or more  logical partitions in the cluster, remove the  logical partition from the cluster and change the host name. Subsequently, you can add the  logical partition to the cluster again with the new host name. If there is only one  logical partition in the cluster, you must delete the cluster and change the host name. Subsequently, you can recreate the cluster. You must make changes to the  file of the  logical partition before creating the cluster. This file is used to specify the ordering of name resolution for networking routines and commands. Later, if you want to edit the  file, perform the following steps on each  logical partition:To stop cluster services on the  logical partition, type the following command: clstartstop -stop -n clustername -m vios_hostname Make the required changes in  file. Ensure that you do not change the IP address that resolves to the host name that is being used for the cluster. To restart cluster services on the  logical partition, type the following command:clstartstop -start -n clustername -m vios_hostname Maintain the same ordering of name resolution for all the  logical partitions that are part of the same cluster. You must not make changes to the  file when you are migrating a cluster from IPv4 to IPv6. Storage provisioningWhen a  is created, you must specify one physical volume for the repository physical volume and at least one physical volume for the storage pool physical volume. The storage pool physical volumes are used to provide storage to the actual data generated by the client partitions. The maximum client storage capacity matches the total storage capacity of all storage pool physical volumes. Use any method that is available for the SAN vendor to create each physical volume with at least 20 GB of available storage space. Map the physical volume to the logical partition Fibre Channel  for each  in the . The physical volumes must only be mapped to the  logical partition connected to the shared storage pool.    logical partition assign hdisk names to all physical volumes available through the Fibre Channel ports, such as hdisk0 and hdisk1. The  logical partition might select different hdisk numbers for the same volumes. For some tasks, the unique device ID (UDID) can be used to distinguish the volumes. Use the  command to obtain the UDID for each disk. Cluster communication modeIn VIOS 2.2.3.0 or later, by default, the shared storage pool cluster is created in a unicast address mode. In earlier VIOS versions, the cluster communication mode gets created in multicast address mode. As the older cluster versions are upgraded to VIOS Version 2.2.3.0, the communication mode changes from multicast to unicast as part of rolling upgrade operation. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information: Failure group Failure group refers to one or more physical disks that belong to one failure domain. When the system selects a mirrored physical partition layout, it considers the failure group as a single point of failure. For example, a failure group can represent all the disks that are the children of one particular adapter (adapterA vs adapterB), or all the disks that are present on one particular SAN (sanA vs sanB), or all the disks that are present on one particular geographic location (buildingA vs buildingB). Shared storage pool mirroring The data in the shared storage pool can be mirrored across multiple disks, and the pool can withstand a physical disk failure by using the disk mirrors. In the case of disk failures, SSP Mirroring provides a better reliability for the storage pool. Hence mirroring provides higher reliability and storage availability in the shared storage pool. The existing non-mirrored shared storage pool can be mirrored by providing a set of new disks that matches the capacity of the original failure group. All these new disks are a part of the new failure group. If one or more disks or partitions of a mirrored pool fail, you would be intimated by alerts and notifications from the management console. When you get the alerts or notifications, you must replace the disk that failed with another functional disk. When the disk starts functioning again or if the disk is replaced, the resynchronization of data starts automatically.         
 Network attributes Find instructions for managing network attributes. You can use several of the  ()  commands, including , , and , to change device or network attributes. This section defines attributes that can be modified. Ethernet attributesYou can modify the following Ethernet attributes.Attribute Description  (mtu)  Specifies maximum transmission unit (MTU). This value can be any number from 60 through 65535, but it is media dependent.  (state)  detach Removes an interface from the network interface list. If the last interface is detached, the network interface driver code is unloaded. To change the interface route of an attached interface, that interface must be detached and added again with the  Interface  state=detach command. down Marks an interface as inactive, which keeps the system from trying to transmit messages through that interface. Routes that use the interface, however, are not automatically disabled.  ( Interface  state=down) up Marks an interface as active. This parameter is used automatically when setting the first address for an interface. It can also be used to enable an interface after the  Interface  state=up command.   (netmask) Specifies how much of the address to reserve for subdividing networks into subnetworks.  The mask includes both the network part of the local address and the subnet part, which is taken from the host field of the address. The mask can be specified as a single hexadecimal number beginning with 0x, in standard Internet dotted-decimal notation.  In the 32-bit address, the mask contains bits with a value of 1 for the bit positions reserved for the network and subnet parts, and a bit with the value of 0 for the bit positions that specify the host. The mask contains the standard network portion, and the subnet segment is contiguous with the network segment.  attributesYou can modify the following  attributes.Attribute Description  (pvid) Port VLAN ID (PVID). Specifies the PVID to use for the . PVID specifies the VLAN ID that is used for the non-VLAN tagged packets. PVID must match the PVID of the adapter that is specified in the pvid_adapter attribute.  (pvid_adapter) Specifies the default virtual adapter to use for non-VLAN tagged packets. PVID of the pvid_adapter attribute must be specified as the value for the pvid attribute.  (real_adapter) Specifies the physical adapter associated with the .  (thread) Activates or deactivates threading on the . Activating this option adds approximately 16 - 20% more machine cycles per transaction for MTU 1500 streaming, and approximately 31 – 38% more machine cycles per transaction for MTU 9000. The threading option adds more machine cycles per transaction at lesser workloads due to the threads being started for each packet. At higher workload rates, such as full duplex or the request/response workloads, the threads can run longer without waiting and being redispatched.  Threaded mode should be used when virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) will be run on the same  logical partition as . Threaded mode helps ensure that virtual SCSI and the  can share the processor resource appropriately. However, threading adds more instruction path length, which uses additional processor cycles. If the  logical partition will be dedicated to running shared Ethernet devices (and associated virtual Ethernet devices) only, the adapters should be configured with threading disabled.  You can enable or disable threading using the  option of the  command. To enable threading, use the -attr thread=1 option. To disable threading, use the -attr thread=0 option. For example, the following command disables threading for  ent1: mkvdev -sea ent1 -vadapter ent5 -default ent5 -defaultid 1 -attr thread=0  (virt_adapter)  Lists the virtual Ethernet adapters associated with the . (largesend) Enables TCP largesend capability (also known as segmentation offload) from logical partitions to the physical adapter. The physical adapter must be enabled for TCP largesend for the segmentation offload from the logical partition to the  to work. Also, the logical partition must be capable of performing a largesend operation. You can enable or disable TCP largesend using the  option of the  command. To enable it, use the '-a largesend=1' option. To disable it, use the '-a largesend=0' option.  For example, the following command enables largesend for  ent1:  chdev -l ent1 -a largesend=1   By default the setting is disabled (largesend=0).   Largesend is enabled by default (largesend=1) on VIOS 2.2.3.0 and higher. For VIOS 2.2.3.0 and higher, network interface that is configured over  device supports largesend operation.  (large_receive) Enables the TCP large receive offload capability on the real adapter. When it is set and if the real adapter supports it, packets received by the real adapter is aggregated before they are passed to the upper layer, resulting in better performance.  This parameter should be enabled only if all the partitions that are connected to the shared Ethernet adapter can handle packets larger than their MTU. This is not the same for Linux partitions. If all the logical partitions that are connected to the shared Ethernet adapter are AIX systems, this parameter can be enabled.  (jumbo_frames) Allows the interface configured over the  to increase its MTU to 9000 bytes (the default is 1500). If the underlying physical adapter does not support jumbo frames and the jumbo_frames attribute is set to yes, then configuration fails. The underlying physical adapter must support jumbo frames. The  automatically enables jumbo frames on its underlying physical adapter if jumbo_frames is set to yes. You cannot change the value of jumbo_frames at run time.   (gvrp) Enables and disables GVRP on a .  (qos_mode) Allows the shared Ethernet adapter to prioritize the traffic based on the IEEE 802.1Q (VLAN) Priority Code Point. When it is disabled, VLAN traffic is not inspected for priority and all frames are treated equally. In strict mode, the high priority traffic is sent preferentially over less priority traffic. This mode provides better performance and more bandwidth to more important traffic. This can result in substantial delays for less priority traffic. In loose mode, a cap is placed on each priority level so that after a number of bytes is sent for each priority level, the following level is serviced. This method ensures that all packets are eventually sent. The high priority traffic is given less bandwidth with this mode than with strict mode. The caps in loose mode are such that more bytes are sent for the high priority traffic, so it gets more bandwidth than less priority traffic.  (nthreads) Specifies the number of threads in threaded mode, where the value of the  parameter is 1. This value applies only when the thread mode is enabled. The  attribute can be set to any value between 1 - 128 and has a default value of 7.  (queue_size) Specifies the queue size for the  threads in threaded mode where the value of the  parameter is 1. This attribute indicates the number of packets that can be accommodated in each thread queue. This value applies only when the thread mode is enabled. When you change this value, the change does not take effect until the system restarts.  (hash_algo) Specifies the hash algorithm that is used to assign connections to  threads in threaded mode, where the value of the  parameter is 1. When the  parameter is set to 0, an addition operation of the source and destination Media Access Control (MAC) addresses, IP addresses, and port numbers is done. When  the  parameter is set to 1, a  function is done instead of an addition operation. The  function is slower, but it achieves better distribution. This value applies only when the thread mode is enabled.  (VSN) (lldpsvc) Activates the VSN capability on the  when you set the attribute to yes. The VSN capability can be enabled on the  () Version 7 Release 7.7.0, or later. The default value of the  attribute is no. This attribute must be set to no before you remove the . For example, the following command enables the VSN capability for the  ent1:chdev -dev ent1 -a lldpsvc=yes  (accounting) When enabled, the shared Ethernet adapter keeps a count of the number of bytes and packets that are bridged to and from each client LPAR. Use the  command to see those statistics.  failover attributesYou can modify the following  failover attributes. Attribute Description  (ha_mode)  Determines whether the devices participate in a failover setup. The default is disabled. Typically, a  in a failover setup is operating in auto mode, and the primary adapter is decided based on which adapter has the highest priority (lowest numerical value). A shared Ethernet device can be forced into the standby mode, where it will behave as the backup device as long as it can detect the presence of a functional primary. The following are the possible values for the  attribute:Disabled This value is the default value. It indicates that the  does not participate in  failover configuration. You must use this value only if you do not want to use  failover configuration on the system. If the  is configured previously in the  failover configuration, do not use this value.  Auto This value indicates that the  is in traditional failover configuration. In this configuration, one  is the primary adapter and the other  is the backup adapter. Depending on the priority value of the trunk adapters, a  is configured as the primary or the backup adapter. Standby A shared Ethernet device can be forced into the Standby mode. A device that is in this mode functions as the backup device for the duration in which it can detect a functional primary adapter. Sharing This value indicates that the  is participating in load sharing. For the  to participate in load sharing, the load sharing criteria must be met. Also, the  attribute must be set to the Sharing mode on both Shared Ethernet Adapters.   (ctl_chan) Sets the virtual Ethernet device that is required for a  in a failover setup so that it can communicate with the other adapter. There is no default value for this attribute, and it is required when the ha_mode is not set to disabled. The Control Channel attribute is an optional attribute with the Power Hypervisor Version 780, or later and with the  Version 2.2.3.0, or later.  (netaddr) Optional attribute that can be specified for a  that has been configured in a failover setup. When this attribute is specified, a shared Ethernet device will periodically ping the IP address to verify connectivity (in addition to checking for link status of the physical devices). If it detects a loss of connectivity to the specified ping host, it will initiate a failover to the backup . This attribute is not supported when you use a  with a  (or Integrated Virtual Ethernet).  (adapter_reset) When enabled, the shared Ethernet adapter disables and re-enables its physical adapter whenever it becomes inactive. It might help the external switch to direct the traffic to the new server. By default the setting is enabled.   (send_RARP) When enabled, the shared Ethernet adapter sends a reverse ARP after the  failover. The reverse ARP is sent by a new primary  to notify the switches of routing change. By default, the setting is enabled.  INET attributesYou can modify the following INET attributes. Attribute Description  (hostname) Specify the host name that you want to assign to the current machine. When specifying the host name, use ASCII characters, preferably alphanumeric only. Do not use a period in the host name. Avoid using hexadecimal or decimal values as the first character (for example 3Comm, where 3C might be interpreted as a hexadecimal character).  For compatibility with earlier hosts, use an unqualified host name of fewer than 32 characters.  If the host uses a domain name server for name resolution, the host name must contain the full domain name.  In the hierarchical domain naming system, names consist of a sequence of subnames that are not case-sensitive and that are separated by periods with no embedded blanks. The DOMAIN protocol specifies that a local domain name must be fewer than 64 characters, and that a host name must be fewer than 32 characters in length. The host name is given first. Optionally, the full domain name can be specified; the host name is followed by a period, a series of local domain names separated by periods, and finally by the root domain. A fully specified domain name for a host, including periods, must be fewer than 255 characters in length and in   the following form: host.subdomain.subdomain.rootdomain  In a hierarchical network, certain hosts are designated as name servers that resolve names into Internet addresses for other hosts.  This arrangement has two advantages over the flat name space: resources of each host on the network are not consumed in resolving names, and the person who manages the system does not need to maintain name-resolution files on each machine on the network. The set of names managed by a single name server is known as its zone of authority.  (gateway) Identifies the gateway to which packets are addressed. The Gateway parameter can be specified either by symbolic name or numeric address.  (route) Specifies the route. The format of the Route attribute is: route=destination, gateway, [metric]. destination Identifies the host or network to which you are directing the route. The Destination parameter can be specified either by symbolic name or numeric address. gateway Identifies the gateway to which packets are addressed. The Gateway parameter can be specified either by symbolic name or numeric address. metric Sets the routing metric. The default is 0 (zero). The routing metric is used by the routing protocol (the routed daemon). Higher metrics have the effect of making a route less favorable. Metrics are counted as additional hops to the destination network or host.  Adapter attributesYou can modify the following adapter attributes. The attribute behavior can vary, based on the adapter and driver you have. Attribute Adapters/Drivers Description  (media_speed)  2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX PCI-X Adapter 10/100/1000 Base-T Ethernet PCI-X Adapter Device Driver  The media speed attribute indicates the speed at which the adapter attempts to operate. The available speeds are 10 Mbps half-duplex, 10 Mbps full-duplex, 100 Mbps half-duplex, 100 Mbps full-duplex and autonegotiation, with a default of autonegotiation. Select auto-negotiate when the adapter should use autonegotiation across the network to determine the speed. When the network will not support autonegotiation, select the specific speed. 1000 MBps half and full duplex are not valid values. According to the IEEE 802.3z specification, gigabit speeds of any duplexity must be autonegotiated for copper (TX)-based adapters. If these speeds are desired, select auto-negotiate.  (media_speed)   2-Port Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI-X Adapter Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI-X Adapter Device Driver The media speed attribute indicates the speed at which the adapter attempts to operate. The available speeds are 1000 Mbps full-duplex and autonegotiation. The default is autonegotiation. Select auto-negotiate when the adapter should use autonegotiation across the network to determine the duplexity. When the network does not support autonegotiation, select 1000 Mbps full-duplex.  (media_speed)   10/100 Mbps Ethernet PCI Adapter Device Driver The media speed attribute indicates the speed at which the adapter attempts to operate. The available speeds are 10 Mbps half-duplex, 10 Mbps full-duplex, 100 Mbps half-duplex, 100 Mbps full-duplex and autonegotiation, with a default of autonegotiation. When the adapter should use autonegotiation across the network to determine the speed, select autonegotiate. When the network will not support autonegotiation, select the specific speed. If autonegotiation is selected, the remote link device must also be set to autonegotiate to ensure the link works correctly.  (media_speed)   10/100/1000 Base-T Ethernet PCI adapter Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI Adapter Device Driver The media speed attribute indicates the speed at which the adapter attempts to operate. The available speeds are 10 Mbps half-duplex, 10 Mbps full-duplex, 100 Mbps half-duplex, 100 Mbps full-duplex and autonegotiation, with a default of autonegotiation. Select autonegotiate when the adapter should use autonegotiation across the network to determine the speed. When the network will not support autonegotiation, select the specific speed. For the adapter to run at 1000 Mbit/s, the autonegotiation setting must be selected.   For the Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI Adapter, the only selection available is autonegotiation.  (use_alt_addr)   Setting this attribute to yes indicates that the address of the adapter, as it appears on the network, is the one specified by the Alternate Ethernet Address attribute. If you specify the no value, the unique adapter address written in a ROM on the adapter card is used. The default value is no.                          (alt_addr)   Allows the adapter unique address, as it appears on the LAN network, to be changed. The value entered must be an Ethernet address of 12 hexadecimal digits and must not be the same as the address of any other Ethernet adapter. There is no default value. This field has no effect unless the Enable Alternate Ethernet Address attribute is set to yes value, in which case this field must be filled in. A typical Ethernet address is 0x02608C000001. All 12 hexadecimal digits, including leading zeros, must be entered.                     (poll_link)  10/100Mbps Ethernet PCI Adapter Device Driver Select no to cause the device driver to poll the adapter to determine the status of the link at a specified time interval. The time interval value is specified in the  field. If you select no, the device driver will not poll the adapter for its link status. The default value is no.     (poll_link_time)  10/100Mbps Ethernet PCI Adapter Device Driver The amount of time, in milliseconds, between polls to the adapter for its link status that the device driver is allowed. This value is required when the  option is set to yes.  A value between 100 through 1000 can be specified. The incremental value is 10. The default value is 500.    (flow_ctrl)  10/100/1000 Base-T Ethernet PCI-X Adapter Device Driver Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI-X Adapter Device Driver 2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX PCI-X Adapter 2-Port Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI-X Adapter Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI Adapter Device Driver This attribute specifies whether the adapter should enable transmit and receive flow control. The default value is no.  (jumbo_frames)  10/100/1000 Base-T Ethernet PCI-X Adapter Device Driver Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI-X Adapter Device Driver 2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX PCI-X Adapter 2-Port Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI-X Adapter Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI Adapter Device Driver Setting this attribute to yes indicates that frames up to 9018 bytes in length might be transmitted on this adapter. If you specify no, the maximum size of frames transmitted is 1518 bytes. Frames up to 9018 bytes in length can always be received on this adapter.   (chksum_offload)  10/100/1000 Base-T Ethernet PCI-X Adapter Device Driver Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI-X Adapter Device Driver 2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX PCI-X Adapter 2-Port Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI-X Adapter Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI Adapter Device Driver Virtual Ethernet adapters Setting this attribute to yes indicates that the adapter calculates the checksum for transmitted and received TCP frames. If you specify no, the checksum will be calculated by the appropriate software.When a virtual Ethernet adapter has checksum offload enabled, the adapter advertises it to the hypervisor. The hypervisor tracks which virtual Ethernet adapters have checksum offload enabled and manages inter-partition communication accordingly. When network packets are routed through the , there is a potential for link errors. In this environment, the packets must traverse the physical link with a checksum. Communication works in the following way:When a packet is received from the physical link, the physical adapter verifies the checksum. If the packet's destination is a virtual Ethernet adapter with checksum offload enabled, the receiver does not have to perform checksum verification. A receiver that does not have checksum offload enabled will accept the packet after checksum verification. When a packet originates from a virtual Ethernet adapter with checksum offload enabled, it travels to the physical adapter without a checksum. The physical adapter will generate a checksum before sending the packet out. Packets originating from a virtual Ethernet adapter with checksum offload disabled generate the checksum at the source.    To enable checksum offload for a , all constituent devices must have it enabled as well. The shared Ethernet device will fail if the underlying devices do not have the same checksum offload settings.  (large_send)   10/100/1000 Base-T Ethernet PCI-X Adapter Device Driver Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI-X Adapter Device Driver 2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX PCI-X Adapter 2-Port Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI-X Adapter Gigabit Ethernet-SX PCI Adapter Device Driver This attribute specifies whether the adapter is to perform transmit TCP resegmentation for TCP segments. The default value is no.  device attributesYou can modify the following  attributes.Attribute Description  (adapter_names) The adapters that currently make up the  device. If you want to modify these adapters, modify this attribute and select all the adapters that should belong to the  device. When you use this attribute to select all of the adapters that should belong to the  device, its interface must not have an IP address configured.    (mode) The type of channel that is configured. In standard mode, the channel sends the packets to the adapter based on an algorithm (the value used for this calculation is determined by the Hash Mode attribute). In round_robin mode, the channel gives one packet to each adapter before repeating the loop. The default mode is standard. Using the 802.3ad mode, the  Control Protocol (LACP) negotiates the adapters in the  device with an LACP-enabled switch.  If the Hash Mode attribute is set to anything other than the default, this attribute must be set to standard or 802.3ad. Otherwise, the configuration of the  device will fail.  (hash_mode) If operating under standard or IEEE 802.3ad mode, the hash mode attribute determines how the outgoing adapter for each packet is chosen. Following are the different modes: default: uses the destination IP address to determine the outgoing adapter. src_port: uses the source TCP or UDP port for that connection. dst_port: uses the destination TCP or UDP port for that connection. src_dst_port: uses both the source and destination TCP or UDP ports for that connection to determine the outgoing adapter. You cannot use round-robin mode with any hash mode value other than default. The  device configuration will fail if you attempt this combination. If the packet is not TCP or UDP, it uses the default hashing mode (destination IP address). Using TCP or UDP ports for hashing can make better use of the adapters in the  device, because connections to the same destination IP address can be sent over different adapters (while still retaining the order of the packets), thus increasing the bandwidth of the  device.  (netaddr) This field is optional. The IP address that the  device should ping to verify that the network is up. This is only valid when there is a backup adapter and when there are one or more adapters in the  device. An address of zero (or all zeros) is ignored and disables the sending of ping packets if a valid address was previously defined. The default is to leave this field blank.  (retry_time) This field is optional. It controls how often the  device sends out a ping packet to poll the current adapter for link status. This is valid only when the  device has one or more adapters, a backup adapter is defined, and the  field contains a non-zero address. Specify the timeout value in seconds.  The range of valid values is 1 to 100 seconds. The default value is 1 second.  (num_retries) This field is optional. It specifies the number of lost ping packets before the  device switches adapters. This is valid only when the  device has one or more adapters, a backup adapter is defined, and the  field contains a non-zero address. The range of valid values is 2 to 100 retries. The default value is 3.  (use_jumbo_frame) This field is optional. To use this attribute, all of the underlying adapters, as well as the switch, must support jumbo frames. This will work only with a Standard Ethernet (en) interface, not an IEEE 802.3 (et) interface.   (use_alt_addr) This field is optional. If you set this to yes, you can specify a MAC address that you want the  device to use. If you set this option to no, the  device uses the MAC address of the first adapter.   (alt_addr)  If  is set to yes, specify the MAC address that you want to use. The address you specify must start with 0x and be a 12-digit hexadecimal address.  VLAN attributesYou can modify the following VLAN attributes. Attribute Value  (vlan_tag_id) The unique ID associated with the VLAN driver. You can specify from 1 to 4094.  (base_adapter) The network adapter to which the VLAN device driver is connected.  QoS attributeYou can modify the following qos_mode attribute. disabled mode  This is the default mode. VLAN traffic is not inspected for the priority field. For example,chdev -dev <sea device name> -attr qos_mode=disabled strict mode  More important traffic is bridged over less important traffic. This mode provides better performance and more bandwidth to more important traffic; however, it can result in substantial delays for less important traffic. For example,chdev -dev <sea device name> -attr qos_mode=strict loose mode  A cap is placed on each priority level, so that after a number of bytes are sent for each priority level, the next level is serviced. This method ensures that all packets will eventually be sent. More important traffic is given less bandwidth with this mode than with strict mode; however, the caps in loose mode are such that more bytes are sent for the more important traffic, so it still gets more bandwidth than less important traffic. For example,chdev -dev <sea device name> -attr qos_mode=loose Client-specific  statisticsTo gather network statistics at a client level, enable advanced accounting on the  to provide more information about its network traffic. To enable client statistics, set the  accounting attribute to enabled (the default value is disabled). When advanced accounting is enabled, the  keeps track of the hardware (MAC) addresses of all of the packets it receives from the LPAR clients, and increments packet and byte counts for each client independently. After advanced accounting is enabled on the , you can generate a report to view per-client statistics by running the  command. The command must be run on the , which is actively bridging the traffic. Advanced accounting must be enabled on the  before you can use the  command to print any statistics. To enable advanced accounting on the , enter the following command: chdev -dev <sea device name> -attr accounting=enabled The following command displays per-client  statistics. The optional -n flag disables name resolution on IP addresses. seastat -d <sea device name> [-n]  The following command clears all of the per-client  statistics that have been gathered: seastat -d <sea device name> -c Parent topic:          
 Reference information for the  Find reference information about the  commands, configuration attributes for Tivoli® agents and clients, networking statistics and attributes, and  user types. You can view a description of each  command. Learn about required and optional configuration attributes and variables for the  agent. Learn about Bridge Protocol Data Unit (BPDU), Generic Attribute Registration Protocol (GARP), and GARP VLAN Registration Protocol (GVRP) displayed by running the  command. You can also view examples. Find instructions for managing network attributes. Learn about  failover statistics, such as high availability information and packet types, and view examples. Learn about general  statistics, such as VLAN IDs and packet information, and view examples. Learn about  user types and their user permissions. Parent topic:          
  command descriptions You can view a description of each  command. For more information about , see . Parent topic:          
  and  commands This topic collection includes command reference information for the  and the . Read about new or significantly changed information in  () since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF of the . This topic contains links to information about the  and  commands, including syntax statements, flag descriptions, and usage examples. Commands are listed alphabetically. This topic contains links to information about the  and  commands, including syntax statements, flag descriptions, and usage examples. Commands are listed by category.         
 Configuration attributes for Tivoli agents and clients Learn about required and optional configuration attributes and variables for the  agent. In the following tables, the term attribute refers to an option that you can add to a  command. The term variable refers to an option that you can specify in a configuration file for  or . Attribute Description HOSTNAME The host name or IP address of the Tivoli Enterprise Monitoring Server (TEMS) server to which the monitoring agent sends data. MANAGING_SYSTEM The host name or IP address of the  () attached to the managed system on which the  with the monitoring agent is located. You can specify only one  per monitoring agent.If you do not specify the MANAGING_SYSTEM attribute, the  uses the Resource Monitoring and Control (RMC) connection to obtain the host name of IP address of the . If the monitoring agent is running on the , then you do not need to specify the MANAGING_SYSTEM attribute. RESTART_ON_REBOOT Determines whether the monitoring agent restarts whenever the  restarts. TRUE indicates that the monitoring agent restarts whenever the  restarts. FALSE indicates that the monitoring agent does not restart whenever the  restarts. Attribute Description SERVERNAME The host name of the  server to which the  client is associated. SERVERIP The IP address or domain name of the  server to which the  client is associated. NODENAME The name of the machine on which the  client is installed. Variable Description Possible values Default value AACCT_TRANS_IDS Designates the  advanced accounting record types included within the usage reports. 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 16 10 AACCT_ONLY Determines whether the Usage and Accounting Manager agent collects accounting data. Y: Indicates that the Usage and Accounting Manager agent collects accounting data. N: Indicates that the Usage and Accounting Manager agent does not collect accounting data. Y ITUAM_SAMPLE Determines whether the Usage and Accounting Manager agent collects data about the storage file system. Y: Indicates that the Usage and Accounting Manager agent collects data about the storage file system. N: Indicates that the Usage and Accounting Manager agent does not collect data about the storage file system. N Attribute Description ACCT_DATA0 The size, in MB, of the first data file that holds daily accounting information. ACCT_DATA1 The size, in MB, of the second data file that holds daily accounting information. ISYSTEM The time, in minutes, when the agent generates system interval records. IPROCESS The time, in minutes, when the system generates aggregate process records.  TotalStorage Productivity Center attributesAttribute Description Required or optional S Host name or IP address of the TotalStorage Productivity Center Server associated with the TotalStorage Productivity Center agent. Required A Host name or IP address of the Agent Manager. Required devAuth Password for authentication to the TotalStorage Productivity Center device server. Required caPass Password for authentication to the command agent. Required caPort Number that identifies the port for the common agent. The default is 9510. Optional amRegPort Number that identifies the registration port for the Agent Manager. The default is 9511.  Optional amPubPort Number that identifies the public port for the Agent Manager. The default is 9513.  Optional dataPort Number that identifies the port for the TotalStorage Productivity Center Data server. The default is 9549. Optional devPort Number that identifies the port of the TotalStorage Productivity Center Device server. The default is 9550. Optional newCA The default is true. Optional oldCA The default is false. Optional daScan Runs a scan for the TPC_data agent after installation. The default is true. Optional daScript Runs the script for the TPC_data agent after installation. The default is true. Optional daIntsall Installs the TPC_data agent. The default is true. Optional faInstall Installs the TPC_fabric agent. The default is true. Optional U Uninstalls the TotalStorage Productivity Center agents. Possible values include: all data fabric Optional Parent topic:  Related information:         
 GARP VLAN Registration Protocol statistics Learn about Bridge Protocol Data Unit (BPDU), Generic Attribute Registration Protocol (GARP), and GARP VLAN Registration Protocol (GVRP) displayed by running the  command. You can also view examples. BPDU refers to all protocol packets that are exchanged between the switch and the . The only bridge protocol currently available with the  is GARP. GARP is a generic protocol used to exchange attribute information between two entities. The only type of GARP currently available on the  is GVRP. With GVRP, the attributes exchanged are VLAN values. BPDU statisticsThe BPDU statistics include all BPDU packets sent or received. BPDU statistic Description Transmit Packets Number of packets sent. Failed packets Number of packets that could not be sent (for example, packets that could not be sent because there was no memory to allocate the outgoing packet). Receive Packets Number of packets received. Unprocessed Packets Packets that could not be processed because the protocol was not running at the time. Non-contiguous Packets Packets that were received in several packet fragments. Packets with unknown PID Packets that had a protocol ID (PID) different than GARP. A high number is typical because the switch might be exchanging other BPDU protocol packets that the  does not support. Packets with Wrong Length Packets whose specified length (in the Ethernet header) does not match the length of the Ethernet packet received. GARP statisticsThe GARP statistics include those BPDU packets sent or received that are of type GARP. GARP statistic Description Transmit Packets Number of packets sent. Failed packets Number of packets that could not be sent (for example, packets that could not be sent because there was no memory to allocate the outgoing packet). Leave All Events Packets sent with event type Leave All. Join Empty Events Packets sent with event type Join Empty Join In Events Packets sent with event type Join In Leave Empty Events Packets sent with event type Leave Empty Leave In Events Packets sent with event type Leave In Empty Events Packets sent with event type Empty Receive Packets Number of packets received Unprocessed Packets Packets that could not be processed because the protocol was not running at the time. Packets with Unknown Attr Type:  Packets with an unsupported attribute type. A high number is typical because the switch might be exchanging other GARP protocol packets that the  does not support. For example, GARP Multicast Registration Protocol (GMRP). Leave All Events Packets received with event type Leave All Join Empty Events Packets received with event type Join Empty Join In Events Packets received with event type Join In Leave Empty Events Packets received with event type Leave Empty Leave In Events Packets received with event type Leave In Empty Events Packets received with event type Empty GVRP statisticsThe GVRP statistics include those GARP packets sent or received that are exchanging VLAN information using GVRP. GVRP statistic Description Transmit Packets Number of packets sent Failed packets Number of packets that could not be sent (for example, packets that could not be sent because there was no memory to allocate the outgoing packet). Leave All Events Packets sent with event type Leave All. Join Empty Events Packets sent with event type Join Empty Join In Events Packets sent with event type Join In Leave Empty Events Packets sent with event type Leave Empty Leave In Events Packets sent with event type Leave In Empty Events Packets sent with event type Empty Receive Packets Number of packets received. Unprocessed Packets Packets that could not be processed because the protocol was not running at the time. Packets with Invalid Length Packets that contains one or more attributes whose length does not correspond to its event type. Packets with Invalid Event Packets that contain one or more attributes whose event type is invalid. Packets with Invalid Value Packets that contain one or more attributes whose value is invalid (for example, an invalid VLAN ID). Total Invalid Attributes Sum of all of the attributes that had an invalid parameter. Total Valid Attributes Sum of all of the attributes that had no invalid parameters. Leave All Events Packets sent with event type Leave All. Join Empty Events Packets sent with event type Join Empty Join In Events Packets sent with event type Join In Leave Empty Events Packets sent with event type Leave Empty Leave In Events Packets sent with event type Leave In Empty Events Packets sent with event type Empty Example statisticsRunning the  command returns results similar to the following: -------------------------------------------------------------- Statistics for adapters in the  ent3 -------------------------------------------------------------- Number of adapters: 2 SEA Flags: 00000009     < THREAD >     < GVRP > VLAN IDs :     ent2: 1  Real Side Statistics:     Packets received: 0     Packets bridged: 0     Packets consumed: 0     Packets transmitted: 0     Packets dropped: 0 Virtual Side Statistics:     Packets received: 0     Packets bridged: 0     Packets consumed: 0     Packets transmitted: 0     Packets dropped: 0 Other Statistics:     Output packets generated: 0     Output packets dropped: 0     Device output failures: 0     Memory allocation failures: 0     ICMP error packets sent: 0     Non IP packets larger than MTU: 0     Thread queue overflow packets: 0 -------------------------------------------------------------- Bridge Protocol Data Units (BPDU) Statistics: Transmit Statistics:                          Receive Statistics: --------------------                          ------------------- Packets: 2                                    Packets: 1370 Failed packets: 0                             Unprocessed Packets: 0                                               Non-contiguous Packets: 0                                               Packets w/ Unknown PID: 1370                                               Packets w/ Wrong Length: 0 --------------------------------------------------------------- General Attribute Registration Protocol (GARP) Statistics: Transmit Statistic:                           Receive Statistics: -------------------                           ------------------- Packets: 2                                    Packets: 0 Failed packets: 0                             Unprocessed Packets: 0                                               Packets w/ Unknow Attr. Type: 0 Leave All Events: 0                           Leave All Events: 0 Join Empty Events: 0                          Join Empty Events: 0 Join In Events: 2                             Join In Events: 0 Leave Empty Events: 0                         Leave Empty Events: 0 Leave In Events: 0                            Leave In Events: 0 Empty Events: 0                               Empty Events: 0 --------------------------------------------------------------- GARP VLAN Registration Protocol (GVRP) Statistics: Transmit Statistics:                          Receive Statistics: --------------------                          ------------------- Packets: 2                                    Packets: 0 Failed packets: 0                             Unprocessed Packets: 0                                               Attributes w/ Invalid Length: 0                                               Attributes w/ Invalid Event: 0                                               Attributes w/ Invalid Value: 0                                               Total Invalid Attributes: 0                                               Total Valid Attributes: 0 Leave All Events: 0                           Leave All Events: 0 Join Empty Events: 0                          Join Empty Events: 0 Join In Events: 2                             Join In Events: 0 Leave Empty Events: 0                         Leave Empty Events: 0 Leave In Events: 0                            Leave In Events: 0 Empty Events: 0                               Empty Events: 0 Parent topic:          
  failover statistics Learn about  failover statistics, such as high availability information and packet types, and view examples. Statistic descriptionsStatistic Description High availability Control Channel PVID Port VLAN ID of the virtual Ethernet adapter used as the control channel. Control Packets in Number of packets received on the control channel. Control Packets out Number of packets sent on the control channel. Packet types Keep-Alive Packets Number of keep-alive packets received on the control channel. Keep-alive packets are received on the backup  while the primary  is active. Recovery Packets Number of recovery packets received on the control channel. Recovery packets are sent by the primary  when it recovers from a failure and is ready to be active again. Notify Packets Number of notify packets received on the control channel. Notify packets are sent by the backup  when it detects that the primary  has recovered. Limbo Packets Number of limbo packets received on the control channel. Limbo packets are sent by the primary  when it detects that its physical network is not operational, or when it cannot ping the specified remote host (to inform the backup that it needs to become active). State The current state of the .INIT The  failover protocol has just been initiated. PRIMARY The  is actively connecting traffic between the VLANs to the network. BACKUP The  is idle and not connecting traffic between the VLANs and the network. RECOVERY The primary  recovered from a failure and is ready to be active again. NOTIFY The backup  detected that the primary  recovered from a failure and that it needs to become idle again. LIMBO One of the following situations is true:The physical network is not operational. The physical network's state is unknown. The  cannot ping the specified remote host. Bridge Mode Describes to what level, if any, the  is currently bridging traffic.Unicast The  is only sending and receiving unicast traffic (no multicast or broadcast traffic). To avoid broadcast storms, the  sends and receives unicast traffic only while it is in the INIT or the RECOVERY states. All The  is sending and receiving all types of network traffic. None The  is not sending or receiving any network traffic. Number of Times Server became Backup Number of times the  was active and became idle because of a failure. Number of Times Server became Primary Number of times the  was idle and became active because the primary  failed. High Availability Mode How the  behaves regarding the  failover protocol.Auto The  failover protocol determines whether the  acts as the primary  or as the backup . Standby The  operates as a backup if there is another  available to act as the primary. Standby causes a primary  to become a backup  if there is another  that can become the primary . Priority Specifies the trunk priority of the virtual Ethernet adapters of the . It is used by the  protocol to determine which  acts as the primary  and which  acts as the backup . Values range from 1 to 12, where a lesser number is favored to act as a primary . Example statisticsRunning the  command returns results similar to the following: ETHERNET STATISTICS (ent8) : Device Type:  Hardware Address: 00:0d:60:0c:05:00 Elapsed Time: 3 days 20 hours 34 minutes 26 seconds Transmit Statistics:                          Receive Statistics: --------------------                          ------------------- Packets: 7978002                              Packets: 5701362 Bytes: 919151749                              Bytes: 664049607 Interrupts: 3                                 Interrupts: 5523380 Transmit Errors: 0                            Receive Errors: 0 Packets Dropped: 0                            Packets Dropped: 0                                               Bad Packets: 0 Max Packets on S/W Transmit Queue: 2          S/W Transmit Queue Overflow: 0 Current S/W+H/W Transmit Queue Length: 1 Elapsed Time: 0 days 0 hours 0 minutes 0 seconds Broadcast Packets: 5312086                    Broadcast Packets: 3740225 Multicast Packets: 265589                     Multicast Packets: 194986 No Carrier Sense: 0                           CRC Errors: 0 DMA Underrun: 0                               DMA Overrun: 0 Lost CTS Errors: 0                            Alignment Errors: 0 Max Collision Errors: 0                       No Resource Errors: 0 Late Collision Errors: 0                      Receive Collision Errors: 0 Deferred: 0                                   Packet Too Short Errors: 0 SQE Test: 0                                   Packet Too Long Errors: 0 Timeout Errors: 0                             Packets Discarded by Adapter: 0 Single Collision Count: 0                     Receiver Start Count: 0 Multiple Collision Count: 0 Current HW Transmit Queue Length: 1 General Statistics: ------------------- No mbuf Errors: 0 Adapter Reset Count: 0 Adapter Data Rate: 0 Driver Flags: Up Broadcast Running  	Simplex 64BitSupport ChecksumOffLoad   DataRateSet -------------------------------------------------------------- Statistics for adapters in the  ent8 -------------------------------------------------------------- Number of adapters: 2 SEA Flags: 00000001     < THREAD > VLAN IDs :     ent7: 1  Real Side Statistics:     Packets received: 5701344     Packets bridged: 5673198     Packets consumed: 3963314     Packets fragmented: 0     Packets transmitted: 28685     Packets dropped: 0 Virtual Side Statistics:     Packets received: 0     Packets bridged: 0     Packets consumed: 0     Packets fragmented: 0     Packets transmitted: 5673253     Packets dropped: 0 Other Statistics:     Output packets generated: 28685     Output packets dropped: 0     Device output failures: 0     Memory allocation failures: 0     ICMP error packets sent: 0     Non IP packets larger than MTU: 0     Thread queue overflow packets: 0 High Availability Statistics:          Control Packets in: 0     Control Packets out: 818825 Type of Packets Received:     Keep-Alive Packets: 0     Recovery Packets: 0     Notify Packets: 0     Limbo Packets: 0     State: LIMBO     Bridge Mode: All     Number of Times Server became Backup: 0     Number of Times Server became Primary: 0     High Availability Mode: Auto     Priority: 1 -------------------------------------------------------------- Real Adapter: ent2 ETHERNET STATISTICS (ent2) : Device Type: 10/100 Mbps Ethernet PCI Adapter II (1410ff01) Hardware Address: 00:0d:60:0c:05:00 Transmit Statistics:                          Receive Statistics: --------------------                          ------------------- Packets: 28684                                Packets: 5701362 Bytes: 3704108                                Bytes: 664049607 Interrupts: 3                                 Interrupts: 5523380 Transmit Errors: 0                            Receive Errors: 0 Packets Dropped: 0                            Packets Dropped: 0                                               Bad Packets: 0 Max Packets on S/W Transmit Queue: 2          S/W Transmit Queue Overflow: 0 Current S/W+H/W Transmit Queue Length: 1 Broadcast Packets: 21                         Broadcast Packets: 3740225 Multicast Packets: 0                          Multicast Packets: 194986 No Carrier Sense: 0                           CRC Errors: 0 DMA Underrun: 0                               DMA Overrun: 0 Lost CTS Errors: 0                            Alignment Errors: 0 Max Collision Errors: 0                       No Resource Errors: 0 Late Collision Errors: 0                      Receive Collision Errors: 0 Deferred: 0                                   Packet Too Short Errors: 0 SQE Test: 0                                   Packet Too Long Errors: 0 Timeout Errors: 0                             Packets Discarded by Adapter: 0 Single Collision Count: 0                     Receiver Start Count: 0 Multiple Collision Count: 0 Current HW Transmit Queue Length: 1 General Statistics: ------------------- No mbuf Errors: 0 Adapter Reset Count: 0 Adapter Data Rate: 200 Driver Flags: Up Broadcast Running  	Simplex Promiscuous AlternateAddress  	64BitSupport ChecksumOffload PrivateSegment LargeSend DataRateSet  10/100 Mbps Ethernet PCI Adapter II (1410ff01) Specific Statistics: ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Link Status: Up Media Speed Selected: Auto negotiation Media Speed Running: 100 Mbps Full Duplex Receive Pool Buffer Size: 1024 No Receive Pool Buffer Errors: 0 Receive Buffer Too Small Errors: 0 Entries to transmit timeout routine: 0 Transmit IPsec packets: 0 Transmit IPsec packets dropped: 0 Receive IPsec packets: 0 Receive IPsec SA offload count: 0 Transmit Large Send packets: 0 Transmit Large Send packets dropped: 0 Packets with Transmit collisions:   1 collisions: 0     6 collisions: 0     11 collisions: 0   2 collisions: 0     7 collisions: 0     12 collisions: 0   3 collisions: 0     8 collisions: 0     13 collisions: 0   4 collisions: 0     9 collisions: 0     14 collisions: 0   5 collisions: 0    10 collisions: 0     15 collisions: 0 -------------------------------------------------------------- Virtual Adapter: ent7 ETHERNET STATISTICS (ent7) : Device Type: Virtual I/O Ethernet Adapter (l-lan) Hardware Address: 8a:83:54:5b:4e:9a Transmit Statistics:                          Receive Statistics: --------------------                          ------------------- Packets: 7949318                              Packets: 0 Bytes: 915447641                              Bytes: 0 Interrupts: 0                                 Interrupts: 0 Transmit Errors: 0                            Receive Errors: 0 Packets Dropped: 0                            Packets Dropped: 0                                               Bad Packets: 0 Max Packets on S/W Transmit Queue: 0          S/W Transmit Queue Overflow: 0 Current S/W+H/W Transmit Queue Length: 0 Broadcast Packets: 5312065                    Broadcast Packets: 0 Multicast Packets: 265589                     Multicast Packets: 0 No Carrier Sense: 0                           CRC Errors: 0 DMA Underrun: 0                               DMA Overrun: 0 Lost CTS Errors: 0                            Alignment Errors: 0 Max Collision Errors: 0                       No Resource Errors: 0 Late Collision Errors: 0                      Receive Collision Errors: 0 Deferred: 0                                   Packet Too Short Errors: 0 SQE Test: 0                                   Packet Too Long Errors: 0 Timeout Errors: 0                             Packets Discarded by Adapter: 0 Single Collision Count: 0                     Receiver Start Count: 0 Multiple Collision Count: 0 Current HW Transmit Queue Length: 0 General Statistics: ------------------- No mbuf Errors: 0 Adapter Reset Count: 0 Adapter Data Rate: 20000 Driver Flags: Up Broadcast Running  	Simplex Promiscuous AllMulticast  	64BitSupport ChecksumOffload DataRateSet  Virtual I/O Ethernet Adapter (l-lan) Specific Statistics: --------------------------------------------------------- RQ Lingth: 4481 No Copy Buffers: 0 Trunk Adapter: True   Priority: 1  Active: True Filter MCast Mode: False Filters: 255   Enabled: 1  Queued: 0  Overflow: 0 LAN State: Operational Hypervisor Send Failures: 2371664   Receiver Failures: 2371664   Send Errors: 0 Hypervisor Receive Failures: 0 ILLAN Attributes: 0000000000003103 [0000000000003103] PVID:  1      VIDs: None Switch ID: ETHERNET0 Buffers   Reg  Alloc  Min  Max   MaxA  LowReg  tiny     512   512   512  2048  512   512  small    512   512   512  2048  512   512  medium   128   128   128  256   128   128  large    24    24    24   64    24    24  huge     24    24    24   64    24    24 Parent topic:          
  statistics Learn about general  statistics, such as VLAN IDs and packet information, and view examples. Statistic descriptionsStatistic Description Number of adapters Includes the real adapter and all of the virtual adapters.  If you are using  failover, then the control channel adapter is not included.  flags Denotes the features that the  is currently running.THREAD The  is operating in threaded mode, where incoming packets are queued and processed by different threads; its absence denotes interrupt mode, where packets are processed in the same interrupt where they are received. LARGESEND The large send feature has been enabled on the . JUMBO_FRAMES The jumbo frames feature has been enabled on the . GVRP The GVRP feature has been enabled on the . VLAN IDs List of VLAN IDs that have access to the network through the  (this includes PVID and all tagged VLANs). Real adapters Packets received Number of packets received on the physical network. Packets bridged Number of packets received on the physical network that were sent to the virtual network. Packets consumed Number of packets received on the physical network that were addressed to the interface configured over the . Packets fragmented Number of packets received on the physical network that were fragmented before being sent to the virtual network. They were fragmented because they were bigger than the outgoing adapter's Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU). Packets transmitted Number of packets sent on the physical network. This includes packets sent from the interface configured over the , as well as each packet sent from the virtual network to the physical network (including fragments). Packets dropped Number of packets received on the physical network that were dropped for one of the following reasons:The packet was the oldest packet on a thread's queue and there was no space to accommodate a newly received packet. The packet had an invalid VLAN ID and could not be processed. The packet was addressed to the  interface, but its interface had no filters registered. Packets filtered (VLAN ID) Number of packets that are received on the physical network and that were not sent to the virtual network because of an unknown VLAN ID.  Packets filtered (Reserved address) Number of packets that are received on the physical network that were not bridged to any of the trunk virtual Ethernet adapters because the destination MAC address is a reserved multicast address that is only useful for bridges. Virtual adapters Packets received Number of packets received on the virtual network. In other words, the number of packets received on all of the virtual adapters. Packets bridged Number of packets received on the virtual network that were sent to the physical network. Packets consumed Number of packets received on the virtual network that were addressed to the interface configured over the . Packets fragmented Number of packets received on the virtual network that were fragmented before being sent to the physical network. They were fragmented because they were bigger than the outgoing adapter's MTU. Packets transmitted Number of packets sent on the virtual network. This includes packets sent from the interface configured over the , as well as each packet sent from the physical network to the virtual network (including fragments). Packets dropped Number of packets received on the virtual network that were dropped for one of the following reasons:The packet was the oldest packet on a thread's queue and there was no space to accommodate a newly received packet. The packet was addressed to the  interface, but its interface had no filters registered. Packets filtered (VLAN ID) In a shared high availability mode, the number of packets that are received on the virtual network and that were not sent to the physical network because they did not belong to the VLAN that is bridged by the shared Ethernet adapter. Output packets generated Number of packets with a valid VLAN tag or no VLAN tag sent out of the interface configured over the . Output packets dropped Number of packets sent out of the interface configured over the  that are dropped because of an invalid VLAN tag. Device output failures Number of packets that could not be sent due to underlying device errors. This includes errors sent on the physical network and virtual network, including fragments and Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) error packets generated by the . Memory allocation failures Number of packets that could not be sent because there was insufficient network memory to complete an operation. ICMP error packets sent Number of ICMP error packets successfully sent when a big packet could not be fragmented because the don't fragment bit was set. Non IP packets larger than MTU Number of packets that could not be sent because they were bigger than the outgoing adapter's MTU and could not be fragmented because they were not IP packets. Thread queue overflow packets Number of packets that were dropped from the thread queues because there was no space to accommodate a newly received packet.             The  counts the sum of transmitted                 statistics for all . The  counts the sum of received statistics for all                     . For example, consider the following                 setup, where a  has a real                 and a virtual adapter:ent5 = SEA ent0 = Real adapter ent1 = Virtual adapter             If a VIOClient receives 100 MB from a server, the  real adapter records 100 MB on its , and the                  virtual adapter records 100 MB on its . In this                 setup, the  record 100 MB for Transmit                 and 100 MB for Receive statistics.             If a VIOClient sends 300 MB to a server, the  real adapter records 300 MB on its , and the                  virtual adapter records 300 MB on its . In this                 setup, the  record 300 MB for Transmit                 and 300 MB for Receive statistics. In a threaded mode, a section follows with the statistics for each queue of each thread that handled packets. There is one queue per thread if QoS is disabled and 7 queues per thread if QoS is enabled. Up to 8 queues per thread are displayed if QoS mode is changed. You can use these statistics to verify whether the packets are distributed evenly between queues, whether the queues are sized correctly, and whether there are sufficient number of threads. Statistic Description Queue full dropped packets Number of packets that were dropped from this thread queue because there was no space to accommodate a newly received packet. Queue packets queued Number of packets that are currently queued in this thread queue. Queue average packets queued Average number of packets present in this thread queue after a newly received packet is queued. A value of N indicates that on an average, there were N-1 packets already present in the queue when a new packet was queued. Queue packets count Total number of packets that have passed through this thread queue. Queue max packets queued Maximum number of packets that was handled by this thread queue. Example statistics------------------------------------------------------------- Statistics for adapters in the Shared Ethernet Adapter ent5 ------------------------------------------------------------- Number of adapters: 3 SEA Flags: 00000001     < THREAD > VLAN Ids :     ent3: 15     ent2: 14 100 101 Real Side Statistics:     Packets received: 10763329     Packets bridged: 10718078     Packets consumed: 10708048     Packets fragmented: 0     Packets transmitted: 181044     Packets dropped: 0     Packets filtered(VlanId): 0     Packets filtered(Reserved address): 45243 Virtual Side Statistics:     Packets received: 363027     Packets bridged: 181044     Packets consumed: 0     Packets fragmented: 0     Packets transmitted: 10900061     Packets dropped: 0     Packets filtered(VlanId): 0 Other Statistics:     Output packets generated: 181983     Output packets dropped: 0     Device output failures: 0     Memory allocation failures: 0     ICMP error packets sent: 0     Non IP packets larger than MTU: 0     Thread queue overflow packets: 0         SEA THREADS INFORMATION         Thread .............. #0     SEA Default Queue #8      Queue full dropped packets: 0     Queue packets queued: 0     Queue average packets queued: 1     Queue packets count: 1811500     Queue max packets queued: 8         Thread .............. #1     SEA Default Queue #8      Queue full dropped packets: 0     Queue packets queued: 0     Queue average packets queued: 1     Queue packets count: 1105002     Queue max packets queued: 15         Thread .............. #2     SEA Default Queue #8      Queue full dropped packets: 0     Queue packets queued: 0     Queue average packets queued: 1     Queue packets count: 2213623     Queue max packets queued: 12         Thread .............. #3     SEA Default Queue #8      Queue full dropped packets: 0     Queue packets queued: 0     Queue average packets queued: 1     Queue packets count: 502088     Queue max packets queued: 12         Thread .............. #4     SEA Default Queue #8      Queue full dropped packets: 0     Queue packets queued: 0     Queue average packets queued: 1     Queue packets count: 654478     Queue max packets queued: 12         Thread .............. #5     SEA Default Queue #8      Queue full dropped packets: 0     Queue packets queued: 0     Queue average packets queued: 1     Queue packets count: 2735294     Queue max packets queued: 12         Thread .............. #6     SEA Default Queue #8      Queue full dropped packets: 0     Queue packets queued: 0     Queue average packets queued: 1     Queue packets count: 2104371     Queue max packets queued: 12 Parent topic:          
 User types for the  Learn about  user types and their user permissions. The  has the following user types: prime administrator, system administrator, service representative user, and development engineer user. After installation, the only user type that is active is the prime administrator. Prime administratorThe prime administrator () user ID is the only user ID that is enabled after installation of the  and can run every  command. There can be only one prime administrator in the . System administratorThe system administrator user ID has access to all commands except the following commands: The prime administrator can create an unlimited number of system administrator IDs. Service representativeCreate the service representative (SR) user so that an  service representative can log in to the system and perform diagnostic routines. Upon logging in, the SR user is placed directly into the diagnostic menus. Development engineerCreate a Development engineer (DE) user ID so that an  development engineer can log in to the system and debug problems. ViewThis role is a read-only role and can perform only list-type (ls) functions. Users with this role do not have the authority to change the system configuration and do not have write permission to their home directories. Parent topic:          
 You can manage the  () and client logical partitions by using the  () and the  command-line interface. The  includes the installation media for the  software. The  facilitates the sharing of physical I/O resources between client logical partitions within the server. When you install the  in a logical partition on a system that is managed by the , you can use the  and the  command-line interface to manage the  and client logical partitions. When you install the  on a managed system and there is no  attached to the managed system when you install the , then the  logical partition becomes the management partition. The management partition provides the  web-based system management interface and a command-line interface that you can use to manage the system. For the most recent information about devices that are supported on the  and to download  fixes and updates, see the  website. Read about new or changed information in  (VIOS) since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF file of this information. Learn the concepts of the  () and its primary components. The following scenarios show examples of networking configurations for the  logical partition and the client logical partitions. Use the following scenarios and configuration examples to understand more about the  and its components. Use this topic to help gain an understanding of what to consider when planning for the .  Find instructions for installing the  by deploying a system plan or manually creating the logical partition and logical partition profiles and installing the  (). You can migrate the  () logical partition from the Hardware Management Console (HMC) Version 7, or later, from a DVD device that is attached to the  logical partition. You need to configure virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) and virtual Ethernet devices on the . Optionally, you can also configure virtual Fibre Channel adapters, Tivoli® agents and clients, and configure the  as an LDAP client. You can manage virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) and virtual Ethernet devices on the , as well as back up, restore, update, and monitor the . You can monitor the  using error logs or . Become familiar with the  security features. Find information about diagnosing  problems and information about how to correct those problems. Find reference information about the  commands, configuration attributes for Tivoli agents and clients, networking statistics and attributes, and  user types. Related information:         
 What's new in  Read about new or changed information in  (VIOS) since the previous update of this topic collection. February 2015 Information about how to update the firmware for an adapter operating in single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) mode was updated in . April 2014The following topic was updated with information about a single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV): October 2013The following topics were updated with information about the operating system support for the  ( and ) and  ( and ) servers. The following topic was updated with information about the  virtual SCSI (VSCSI) client adapter read or write command timeout feature: The following topics were added with information about the  VSCSI pool mirroring feature:  The following topics were updated with information about the virtualization support of Universal Serial Bus (USB) removable hard disk drive (HDD): The following topic was added with information about the virtualization support of USB removable HDD: The following topic was added with information about configuring shared Ethernet adapter failover without using a dedicated control channel adapter: The following topics were updated with information about the shared Ethernet adapter quality enhancements: The following topic was updated  with information about the Control Channel attribute: The following topic was added with information about enabling or disabling the virtual Ethernet adapter: September 2013Updated the following topics with information about the  () server: August 2013Updated the following topics with information about the  () server: June 2013The following topics were updated with information about the  () server: The following topics were updated with information about the operating system support for the  ( and ) and  ( and ) servers. March 2013The following topics were updated about the  (),  (),  (),  (),  (), and  () servers. The following topics were added about installing the  (): The following topic was updated about installing the : The following topic was added about logical partitions that are capable of virtual server network (VSN): The following topic was updated about logical partitions that are capable of the VSN capability: October 2012The following information was updated for the virtual processor value: The following information is new or updated for clusters: The following information is new for the  () Performance Advisor tool: The following information was updated for Shared Ethernet Adapters: May 2012The following information is new for the Trusted Firewall feature: December 2011The following updates have been made to the content. With  Version 2.2.1.3, or later, you can create a cluster that consists of up to four networked  partitions that are connected to the same shared storage pool. This cluster has access to distributed storage. The following information is new or updated for clusters: October 2011The following updates have been made to the content. Added information about the  (),  (),  (), and  () servers. Added information about the  () and  () servers. With the  Version 2.2.1.0, or later, you can use the Trusted Logging capability. Trusted Logging is a capability that is supported on the PowerSC Standard Edition. By using the Trusted Logging capability, you can configure  logical partitions to write to log files stored on an attached . The following information is new or updated for partitions that are capable of the Trusted Logging capability: With the  Version 2.2.1.0, or later, you can configure primary and backup Shared Ethernet Adapters for load sharing. The following information is new or updated for Shared Ethernet Adapters that are capable of the load sharing capability: May 2011The following updates have been made to the content. The following information is updated for the   and   servers: With the  Version 7.7.3, or later, or the , and  processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.3, or later, you can also suspend an  logical partition with its operating system and applications, and store the logical partition state to persistent storage. You can resume the operation of the logical partition on the same system. The following information is new or updated for  partitions with the Suspend/Resume feature: The  can be used to manage  servers. The following information is new or updated for : December 2010The following updates have been made to the content. With the  Version 7.7.2.0, or later, you can suspend an  or  logical partition with its operating system and applications, and store its virtual server state to persistent storage. At a later time, you can resume the operation of the logical partition. The following information is new or updated for partitions with the Suspend/Resume feature: With the  Version 2.2.0.11, Fix Pack 24, Service Pack 1, you can create a cluster of only one  partition connected to the same shared storage pool and having access to distributed storage. The following information is new or updated for clusters: September 2010The following updates have been made to the content. The following information is updated for the  (),  (),  (),  (), and  () servers: The following information is updated for the Universal Serial Bus (USB) (DAT320)-attached tape device: You can change  while installing the  (). The following information is updated for  installation: With the  Version 2.2, or later, you can add, remove, or modify the existing set of virtual local area networks (VLAN) for a virtual Ethernet adapter that is assigned to an active partition on a  processor-based server by using the  () Version 7.7.2.0, or later. The following information is new or updated for the dynamic addition and removal of VLANs: On the  Version 2.2, or later, a system administrator can define roles based on job functions in an organization by using role-based access control (RBAC). The following information is new or updated for RBAC: March 2010Added information for the new  servers that contain the  processor. Parent topic:          
 Operating system support for VIOS client logical partitions The  () supports client logical partitions that run the following operating systems on the following  processor-based servers.  processor-based servers Minimum operating system versions All  processor-based servers All  processor-based servers All  processor-based servers                        Service Pack 3  Service Pack 2            Service Pack 1      Service Pack         Service Pack    Version 6.4  Version 6.3  Version 6.2  Version 6.1            Version 6  Version 5.9  Version 5.8  Version 5.7      Version 5.6       .5 Parent topic:          
  overview Learn the concepts of the  () and its primary components. The  is part of the . The  is software that is located in a logical partition. This software facilitates the sharing of physical I/O resources between client logical partitions within the server. The  provides virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) target, virtual Fibre Channel, , and  capability to client logical partitions within the system. As a result, you can perform the following functions on client logical partitions:Share SCSI devices, Fibre Channel adapters, and Ethernet adapters Expand the amount of memory available to logical partitions by using paging space devices A dedicated logical partition is required for the  software solely for its use.  You can use the  to perform the following functions:  Sharing of physical resources between logical partitions on the system Creating logical partitions without requiring additional physical I/O resources Creating more logical partitions than there are I/O slots or physical devices available with the ability for logical partitions to have dedicated I/O, virtual I/O, or both Maximizing use of physical resources on the system Helping to reduce the storage area network (SAN) infrastructure The  () supports client logical partitions that run the following operating systems on the following  processor-based servers. This topic provides a brief overview of virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI), virtual networking, and the  ().  With N_Port ID Virtualization (NPIV), you can configure the managed system so that multiple logical partitions can access independent physical storage through the same physical Fibre Channel adapter. Using virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI), client logical partitions can share disk storage and tape or optical devices that are assigned to the  () logical partition. Learn about virtual Ethernet, , link aggregation, ,  failover, and VLAN. Shared memory is physical memory that is assigned to the shared memory pool and shared among multiple logical partitions. The shared memory pool is a defined collection of physical memory blocks that are managed as a single memory pool by the hypervisor. Logical partitions that you configure to use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions) share the memory in the pool with other shared memory partitions. A  (VIOS) logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) provides access to the paging space devices for the logical partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions). Learn about management tools for the , such as the  command-line interface, and several Tivoli® products that can manage different aspects of the . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Components of the Virtual I/O Server This topic provides a brief overview of virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI), virtual networking, and the  ().  For the most recent information about devices that are supported on the  and to download  fixes and updates, see the  website. The  comprises the following primary components: Virtual SCSI Virtual networking  () The following sections provide a brief overview of each of these components. Virtual SCSIPhysical adapters with attached disks or optical devices on the  logical partition can be shared by one or more client logical partitions. The  offers a local storage subsystem that provides standard SCSI-compliant logical unit numbers (LUNs). The  can export a pool of heterogeneous physical storage as a homogeneous pool of block storage in the form of SCSI disks.  Unlike typical storage subsystems that are physically located in the storage area network (SAN), the SCSI devices exported by the  are limited to the domain within the server. Although the SCSI LUNs are SCSI compliant, they might not meet the needs of all applications, particularly those that exist in a distributed environment. The following SCSI peripheral-device types are supported:Disks backed up by logical volumes Disks backed up by physical volumes Disks backed up by files Optical devices (DVD-RAM and DVD-ROM) Optical devices backed up by files Tape devices  		 Virtual networking provides the following virtual networking technologies. Virtual networking technology Description A  is a layer-2 Ethernet bridge that connects physical and virtual networks together. It allows logical partitions on the virtual local area network (VLAN) to share access to a physical Ethernet adapter and to communicate with systems outside the server. On  processor-based systems, you can assign a logical host Ethernet port of a logical Host Ethernet Adapter, sometimes referred to as Integrated Virtual Ethernet, as the real adapter of a . A  is a physical Ethernet adapter that is integrated directly into the GX+ bus on a managed system. s offer high throughput, low latency, and virtualization support for Ethernet connections. The  on the  supports IPv6. IPv6 is the next generation of Internet Protocol and is gradually replacing the current Internet standard, Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4). The key IPv6 enhancement is the expansion of the IP address space from 32 bits to 128 bits, providing virtually unlimited, unique IP addresses.  failover  failover provides redundancy by configuring a backup  on a different  logical partition that can be used if the primary  fails. The network connectivity in the client logical partitions continues without disruption. A   device is a network port-aggregation technology that allows several Ethernet adapters to be aggregated. helps provide more throughput over a single IP address than would be possible with a single Ethernet adapter. VLAN VLAN allows the physical network to be logically segmented. The  provides a browser-based interface and a command-line interface that you can use to manage some servers that use the . On the managed system, you can create logical partitions, manage the virtual storage and virtual Ethernet, and view service information related to the server. The  is packaged with the , but it is activated and usable only on certain platforms and where no  () is present. Parent topic:          
 Virtual Fibre Channel With N_Port ID Virtualization (NPIV), you can configure the managed system so that multiple logical partitions can access independent physical storage through the same physical Fibre Channel adapter. To access physical storage in a typical storage area network (SAN) that uses Fibre Channel, the physical storage is mapped to logical units (LUNs) and the LUNs are mapped to the ports of physical Fibre Channel adapters. Each physical port on each physical Fibre Channel adapter is identified using one worldwide port name (WWPN). NPIV is a standard technology for Fibre Channel networks that enables you to connect multiple logical partitions to one physical port of a physical Fibre Channel adapter. Each logical partition is identified by a unique WWPN, which means that you can connect each logical partition to independent physical storage on a SAN. To enable NPIV on the managed system, you must create a  logical partition (version 2.1, or later) that provides virtual resources to client logical partitions. You assign the physical Fibre Channel adapters (that support NPIV) to the  logical partition. Then, you connect virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the client logical partitions to virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  logical partition. A virtual Fibre Channel adapter is a virtual adapter that provides client logical partitions with a Fibre Channel connection to a storage area network through the  logical partition. The  logical partition provides the connection between the virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  logical partition and the physical Fibre Channel adapters on the managed system. The following figure shows a managed system configured to use NPIV. The figure shows the following connections: A storage area network (SAN) connects three units of physical storage to a physical Fibre Channel adapter that is located on the managed system. The physical Fibre Channel adapter is assigned to the  and supports NPIV. The physical Fibre Channel adapter connects to three virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the . All three virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  connect to the same physical port on the physical Fibre Channel adapter.  Each virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the  connects to one virtual Fibre Channel adapter on a client logical partition. Each virtual Fibre Channel adapter on each client logical partition receives a pair of unique WWPNs. The client logical partition uses one WWPN to log into the SAN at any given time. The other WWPN is used when you move the client logical partition to another managed system.  Using their unique WWPNs and the virtual Fibre Channel connections to the physical Fibre Channel adapter, the operating systems that run in the client logical partitions discover, instantiate, and manage their physical storage located on the SAN. In the previous figure, Client logical partition 1 accesses Physical storage 1, Client logical partition 2 accesses Physical storage 2, and Client logical partition 3 accesses Physical storage 3.  The  cannot access and does not emulate the physical storage to which the client logical partitions have access. The  provides the client logical partitions with a connection to the physical Fibre Channel adapters on the managed system.  There is always a one-to-one relationship between virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the client logical partitions and the virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  logical partition. That is, each virtual Fibre Channel adapter on a client logical partition must connect to only one virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the  logical partition, and each virtual Fibre Channel on the  logical partition must connect to only one virtual Fibre Channel adapter on a client logical partition.  Using SAN tools, you can zone and mask LUNs that include WWPNs that are assigned to virtual Fibre Channel adapters on client logical partitions. The SAN uses WWPNs that are assigned to virtual Fibre Channel adapters on client logical partitions the same way it uses WWPNs that are assigned to physical ports. You can configure virtual Fibre Channel adapters on client logical partitions that run the following operating systems:  Version 6.1 Technology Level 2, or later  Version 5.3 Technology Level 9  Version 6.1.1, or later  Version 11, or later  Version 10, Service Pack 3, or later  Enterprise Server Version 5.4 or later  Enterprise Server Version 6 or later  Version 11, or later  Version 10, Service Pack 3, or later  Enterprise Server Version 5.4 or later  Enterprise Server Version 6 or later On systems that are managed by the  (), you can dynamically add and remove virtual Fibre Channel adapters to and from the  logical partition and each client logical partition. You can also view information about the virtual and physical Fibre Channel adapters and the worldwide port names (WWPNs) by using  commands. On systems that are managed by the  (IVM), you can dynamically add and remove worldwide port names (WWPNs) to and from logical partitions, and you can dynamically change the physical ports to which the WWPNs are assigned. You can also view information about the virtual and physical fibre channel adapters and the WWPNs by using the  and  commands. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Virtual Fibre Channel for -managed systems On systems that are managed by the  (), you can dynamically add and remove virtual Fibre Channel adapters to and from the  logical partition and each client logical partition. You can also view information about the virtual and physical Fibre Channel adapters and the worldwide port names (WWPNs) by using  commands. To enable N_Port ID Virtualization (NPIV) on the managed system, you create the required virtual Fibre Channel adapters and connections as follows: You use the  to create virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  logical partition and associate them with virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the client logical partitions. You use the  to create virtual Fibre Channel adapters on each client logical partition and associate them with virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  logical partition. When you create a virtual Fibre Channel adapter on a client logical partition, the  generates a pair of unique WWPNs for the client virtual Fibre Channel adapter.  You connect the virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  to the physical ports of the physical Fibre Channel adapter by running the  command on the . The  generates WWPNs based on the range of names available for use with the prefix in the vital product data on the managed system. This 6–digit prefix comes with the purchase of the managed system and includes 32 000 pairs of WWPNs. When you remove a virtual Fibre Channel adapter from a client logical partition, the hypervisor deletes the WWPNs that are assigned to the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the client logical partition. The  does not reuse the deleted WWPNs when generating WWPNs for virtual Fibre Channel adapters in the future. If you run out of WWPNs, you must obtain an activation code that includes another prefix with another 32 000 pairs of WWPNs. To avoid configuring the physical Fibre Channel adapter to be a single point of failure for the connection between the client logical partition and its physical storage on the SAN, do not connect two virtual Fibre Channel adapters from the same client logical partition to the same physical Fibre Channel adapter. Instead, connect each virtual Fibre Channel adapter to a different physical Fibre Channel adapter.  You can dynamically add and remove virtual Fibre Channel adapters to and from the  logical partition and to and from client logical partitions. Dynamically add or remove virtual Fibre Channel adapter To or from a client logical partition or a  logical partition Result Add a virtual Fibre Channel adapter To a client logical partition The  generates the a pair of unique WWPNs for the client virtual Fibre Channel adapter. Add a virtual Fibre Channel adapter To a  logical partition You need to connect the virtual Fibre Channel adapter to a physical port on a physical Fibre Channel adapter. Remove a virtual Fibre Channel adapter From a client logical partition The hypervisor deletes the WWPNs and does not reuse them. You must either remove the associated virtual Fibre Channel adapter from the , or associate it with another virtual Fibre Channel adapter on a client logical partition. Remove a virtual Fibre Channel adapter From a  logical partition The  removes the connection to the physical port on the physical Fibre Channel adapter. You must either remove the associated virtual Fibre Channel adapter from the client logical partition, or associate it with another virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the  logical partition. The following table lists the  commands that you can run to view information about the Fibre Channel adapters.Virtual I/O Server command Information displayed by command Displays the virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  that are connected to the physical Fibre Channel adapter Displays attributes of the virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the client logical partitions that are associated with the virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  that are connected to the physical Fibre Channel adapter Displays information about the physical ports on the physical Fibre Channel adapters that support NPIV, such as:The name and location code of the physical port The number of available physical ports  The total number of WWPNs that the physical port can support Whether the switches, to which the physical Fibre Channel adapters are cabled, support NPIV You can also run the  command on the  to display the remaining number of WWPNs and to display the prefix that is currently used to generate the WWPNs. Parent topic:          
 Virtual Fibre Channel on IVM-managed systems On systems that are managed by the  (IVM), you can dynamically add and remove worldwide port names (WWPNs) to and from logical partitions, and you can dynamically change the physical ports to which the WWPNs are assigned. You can also view information about the virtual and physical fibre channel adapters and the WWPNs by using the  and  commands. To enable N_Port ID Virtualization (NPIV) on the managed system, you create a pair of WWPNs for a logical partition and assign the pair directly to the physical ports of the physical Fibre Channel adapters. You can assign multiple logical partitions to one physical port by assigning a pair of WWPNs for each logical partition to the same physical port. When you assign a WWPN pair to a logical partition, the IVM automatically creates the following connections: The IVM creates a virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the management partition and associates it with the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the logical partition.  The IVM generates a pair of unique WWPNs and creates a virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the client logical partition. The IVM assigns the WWPNs to the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the client logical partition, and associates the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the client logical partition with the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the management partition. When you assign the WWPNs for a logical partition to a physical port, the IVM connects the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the management partition to the physical port on the physical Fibre Channel adapter. The IVM generates WWPNs based on the range of names available for use with the prefix in the vital product data on the managed system. This 6–digit prefix comes with the purchase of the managed system and includes 32 768 pairs of WWPNs. When you remove the connection between a logical partition and a physical port, the hypervisor deletes the WWPNs that are assigned to the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the logical partition. The IVM does not reuse the deleted WWPNs when generating WWPNs for virtual Fibre Channel adapters in the future. If you run out of WWPNs, you must obtain an activation code that includes another prefix with 32 768 pairs of WWPNs. To avoid configuring the physical Fibre Channel adapter to be a single point of failure for the connection between the logical partition and its physical storage on the storage area network (SAN), do not assign a logical partition to one physical Fibre Channel adapter twice. For example, do not assign a WWPN pair for a logical partition to a physical port on a physical Fibre Channel adapter, and then assign another WWPN pair for the same logical partition to another physical port on the same physical Fibre Channel adapter. Instead, assign the WWPN pairs for each logical partition to different physical Fibre Channel adapters.  You can add WWPN pairs for a new logical partition without assigning them to a physical port. Being able to generate WWPNs independently of a physical port assignment for a logical partition allows you to communicate these names to the SAN administrator. This ensures that the SAN administrator can configure the SAN connection appropriately such that the logical partition can connect successfully to the SAN without regard for which physical port the partition uses for the connection. You can dynamically add or remove a WWPN pair to and from a logical partition. You can also dynamically change the physical port that is assigned to a WWPN pair. Action Result Dynamically add a WWPN pair to a logical partition The IVM creates a virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the management partition and associates it with the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the logical partition.  The IVM generates a pair of unique WWPNs and creates a virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the logical partition. The IVM assigns the WWPNs to the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the logical partition, and associates the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the logical partition with the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the management partition. Dynamically assign a WWPN pair to a physical port The IVM connects the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the management partition to the physical port on the physical Fibre Channel adapter. Dynamically remove a WWPN pair from a logical partition The IVM removes the connection between the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the management partition and the physical port on the physical Fibre Channel adapter. The IVM removes the virtual Fibre Channel adapter from the management partition. The IVM removes the virtual Fibre Channel adapter from the logical partition. The IVM deletes the WWPNs and does not reuse them. Dynamically change the physical port assignment of a WWPN pair The  changes the connection for the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the management partition to the newly assigned physical port. When you change the physical port to a value of None, the  retains the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the management partition, but removes the connection to the physical port on the physical Fibre Channel adapter. If you later reassign a physical port to the WWPN pair, the  reuses the original virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the management partition and connects the adapter to the newly assigned physical port. The following table lists the  commands that you can run to view information about the Fibre Channel adapters.Virtual I/O Server command Information displayed by command Displays the virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  that are connected to the physical Fibre Channel adapter Displays attributes of the virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the client logical partitions that are associated with the virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  that are connected to the physical Fibre Channel adapter Displays information about the physical ports on the physical Fibre Channel adapters that support NPIV, such as:The name and location code of the physical port The number of available physical ports  The total number of WWPNs that the physical port can support Whether the switches, to which the physical Fibre Channel adapters are cabled, support NPIV Parent topic:          
 Redundancy configuration using virtual Fibre Channel adapters Redundancy configurations help protect your network from physical adapter failures as well as Virtual I/O Server failures.  With N_Port ID Virtualization (NPIV), you can configure the managed system so that multiple logical partitions can access independent physical storage through the same physical Fibre Channel adapter. Each virtual Fibre Channel adapter is identified by a unique worldwide port name (WWPN), which means that you can connect each virtual Fibre Channel adapter to independent physical storage on a SAN.  Similar to virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) redundancy, virtual Fibre Channel redundancy can be achieved using Multi-path I/O (MPIO) and mirroring at the client partition. The difference between traditional redundancy with SCSI adapters and the NPIV technology using virtual Fibre Channel adapters, is that the redundancy occurs on the client, because only the client recognizes the disk.  The  is essentially just a pipe. Example 2 uses multiple  logical partitions to add redundancy at the  level as well.  Example 1: Host bus adapter failoverThis example uses Host bus adapter (HBA) failover to provide a basic level of redundancy for the client logical partition. The figure shows the following connections: The storage area network (SAN) connects physical storage to two physical Fibre Channel adapters located on the managed system.  The physical Fibre Channel adapters are assigned to the  and support NPIV. The physical Fibre Channel ports are each connected to a virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the . The two virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  are connected to ports on two different physical Fibre Channel adapters in order to provide redundancy for the physical adapters.  Each virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the  is connected to one virtual Fibre Channel adapter on a client logical partition. Each virtual Fibre Channel adapter on each client logical partition receives a pair of unique WWPNs. The client logical partition uses one WWPN to log into the SAN at any given time. The other WWPN is used when you move the client logical partition to another managed system. The virtual Fibre Channel adapters always has a one-to-one relationship between the client logical partitions and the virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  logical partition. That is, each virtual Fibre Channel adapter that is assigned to a client logical partition must connect to only one virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the , and each virtual Fibre Channel on the  must connect to only one virtual Fibre Channel adapter on a client logical partition.  The client can write to the physical storage through client virtual Fibre Channel adapter 1 or 2. If a physical Fibre Channel adapter fails, the client uses the alternative path. This example does not show redundancy in the physical storage, but rather assumes it would be built into the SAN.  It is recommended that you configure virtual Fibre Channel adapters from multiple logical partitions to the same HBA, or you configure virtual Fibre Channel adapters from the same logical partition to different HBAs. Example 2: HBA and  failoverThis example uses HBA and  failover to provide a more advanced level of redundancy for the client logical partition. The figure shows the following connections: The storage area network (SAN) connects physical storage to two physical Fibre Channel adapters located on the managed system.  There are two  logical partitions to provide redundancy at the  level. The physical Fibre Channel adapters are assigned to their respective  and support NPIV. The physical Fibre Channel ports are each connected to a virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the . The two virtual Fibre Channel adapters on the  are connected to ports on two different physical Fibre Channel adapters in order to provide redundancy for the physical adapters. A single adapter could have multiple ports.  Each virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the  is connected to one virtual Fibre Channel adapter on a client logical partition. Each virtual Fibre Channel adapter on each client logical partition receives a pair of unique WWPNs. The client logical partition uses one WWPN to log into the SAN at any given time. The other WWPN is used when you move the client logical partition to another managed system. The client can write to the physical storage through virtual Fibre Channel adapter 1 or 2 on the client logical partition through VIOS 2. The client can also write to physical storage through virtual Fibre Channel adapter 3 or 4 on the client logical partition through VIOS 1. If a physical Fibre Channel adapter fails on VIOS 1, the client uses the other physical adapter connected to VIOS 1 or uses the paths connected through VIOS 2. If VIOS 1 fails, then the client uses the path through VIOS 2. This example does not show redundancy in the physical storage, but rather assumes it would be built into the SAN. ConsiderationsThese examples can become more complex as you add physical storage redundancy and multiple clients, but the concepts remain the same. Consider the following points:To avoid configuring the physical Fibre Channel adapter to be a single point of failure for the connection between the client logical partition and its physical storage on the SAN, do not connect two virtual Fibre Channel adapters from the same client logical partition to the same physical Fibre Channel adapter. Instead, connect each virtual Fibre Channel adapter to a different physical Fibre Channel adapter. Consider load balancing when mapping a virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the  to a physical port on the physical Fibre Channel adapter. Consider what level of redundancy already exists in the SAN to determine whether to configure multiple physical storage units. Consider using two  logical partitions. Since the  is central to communication between logical partitions and the external network, it is important to provide a level of redundancy for the . Multiple  logical partitions require more resources as well, so you should plan accordingly. NPIV technology is useful when you want to move logical partitions between servers. For example, in active , if you use the redundancy configurations as illustrated, in combination with physical adapters, you can stop all the I/O activity through the dedicated, physical adapter and direct all traffic through a virtual Fibre Channel adapter until the logical partition is successfully moved. The dedicated physical adapter would need to be connected to the same storage as the virtual path. Since you cannot migrate a physical adapter, all I/O activity is routed through the virtual path while you move the partition. After the logical partition is moved successfully, you need to set up the dedicated path (on the destination logical partition) if you want to use the same redundancy configuration you had configured on the original logical partition. Then the I/O activity can resume through the dedicated adapter, using the virtual Fibre Channel adapter as a secondary path. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Redundancy considerations Redundancy options are available at several levels in the virtual I/O environment. Multipathing, mirroring, and RAID redundancy options exist for the  and some client logical partitions. Ethernet  is also an option for the client logical partitions, and the  provides  failover. There is also support for node failover () for nodes using virtual I/O resources. This section contains information about redundancy for both the client logical partitions and the . While these configurations help protect from the failure of one of the physical components, such as a disk or network adapter, they might cause the client logical partition to lose access to its devices if the  fails. The  can be made redundant by running a second instance of it in another logical partition. When running two instances of the , you can use LVM mirroring, multipath I/O, network interface backup, or multipath routing with dead gateway detection in the client logical partition to provide highly available access to virtual resources hosted in separate  logical partitions. This topic includes redundancy considerations for client logical partitions. MPIO, , and mirroring for the client logical partition are discussed. Redundancy options for the  include multi-pathing, Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) configurations, and . Redundancy configurations help protect your network from physical adapter failures as well as Virtual I/O Server failures.  Parent topic:          
  logical partition Redundancy options for the  include multi-pathing, Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) configurations, and . Multipathing for the physical storage within the Virtual I/O Server provides failover physical path redundancy and load-balancing. The multipathing solutions available in the Virtual I/O Server include MPIO as well as solutions provided by the storage vendors.  Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) solutions provide for device level redundancy within the . Some RAID options, such as LVM mirroring and striping, are provided by the  software, while other RAID options are made available by the physical storage subsystem.  Parent topic:          
 Multipathing Multipathing for the physical storage within the Virtual I/O Server provides failover physical path redundancy and load-balancing. The multipathing solutions available in the Virtual I/O Server include MPIO as well as solutions provided by the storage vendors.  For information about supported storage and multipathing software solutions, see the datasheet available on the  website. Parent topic:          
 RAID Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) solutions provide for device level redundancy within the . Some RAID options, such as LVM mirroring and striping, are provided by the  software, while other RAID options are made available by the physical storage subsystem.  See the  datasheet available on the  website for supported hardware RAID solutions.  Parent topic:          
 Planning for the  Use this topic to help gain an understanding of what to consider when planning for the .  You can use the  (SPT) to create a system plan that includes some basic configuration specifications for a  logical partitions. You can also use the  () to create a system plan based on an existing system configuration. This topic defines the range of configuration possibilities, including the minimum number of resources needed and the maximum number of resources allowed to create the  (). Learn about  () configuration limitations. This topic includes capacity-planning considerations for the , including information about hardware resources and limitations. Review the requirements for the system,  (VIOS), logical partitions, and paging space devices so that you can successfully configure shared memory. Redundancy options are available at several levels in the virtual I/O environment. Multipathing, mirroring, and RAID redundancy options exist for the  and some client logical partitions. Ethernet  is also an option for the client logical partitions, and the  provides  failover. There is also support for node failover () for nodes using virtual I/O resources. Review the security considerations for virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI), virtual Ethernet, and  and the additional security options available. With , you can install  in a client logical partition on a  system.  client logical partitions have unique system and storage requirements and considerations. Parent topic:          
 Planning for  and client logical partitions by using system plans You can use the  (SPT) to create a system plan that includes some basic configuration specifications for a  logical partitions. You can also use the  () to create a system plan based on an existing system configuration. SPT is a PC-based browser application that can assist you in planning and designing a new system. SPT validates your plan against system requirements and prevents you from creating a plan that exceeds those requirements. It also incorporates the  (WLE) to help you plan for workloads and performance. The output is a system-plan file that you can deploy to a managed system. You can use a system plan to do some basic configuration at the logical partition profile level for items such as virtual Ethernet adapters and virtual local area network (VLAN)s and the mappings between them. You also can use a system plan to configure virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter mappings between the  and its client logical partitions. However, you must configure manually any connections or mappings between these virtual adapters and the physical networking or storage devices.  Create a system plan by using SPT. For instructions, see the  Web site. With SPT, you can create a system plan that includes the following information: Configuration specifications for a  logical partition Configuration specifications for   client logical partitions. Create a system plan based on an existing system configuration by using the Create System Plan task in the . For instructions, see .Alternatively, you can use the  command on the HMC to create a system plan based on an existing system configuration.  After you have a system plan, you can deploy the system plan to the managed system. For instructions, see .  When you deploy the system plan, the  automatically performs the following tasks based on the information provided in the system plan:Creates the  logical partition and logical partition profile. Creates the client logical partitions and logical partition profiles. After you deploy the system plan you must manually configure all  provisioning items, such as Shared Ethernet Adapters, EtherChannel adapters (or  devices), storage pools, and backing devices. For more detailed information about the restrictions that apply, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Creating a system plan by using the HMC  You can use the  () to create a system plan, based on an existing system configuration, and then deploy that system plan to other managed systems. When you create a system plan on the , you can deploy the resulting system plan to create identical logical partition configurations on managed systems with identical hardware. The system plan contains specifications for the logical partitions and partition profiles of the managed system that you used as the basis of creating the system plan.  The new system plan also can contain hardware information that the  is able to obtain from the selected managed system. However, the amount of hardware information that the  can capture for the new system plan varies based on the method that the  uses to gather the hardware information.   When you use the  V7R7.1.0, or later, on  processor-based servers, system plans that are created by using the  do not include  () provisioning information. The  can potentially use two methods: inventory gathering and hardware discovery. For example, when using hardware discovery, the  can detect information about hardware that is unassigned to a partition or that is assigned to an inactive partition.   Ensure that you meet the requirements for using either or both of the inventory gathering and hardware discovery methods before you create your system plan. See  for more information. To create a system plan by using the , complete the following steps:  The System Plans page opens.  The Create System Plan window opens. Optional:  This option appears only if the managed system is capable of hardware discovery, and the option is selected by default.  If you do not select the  option, the  does not perform a new hardware discovery, but instead uses the data in the inventory cache on the system. The  still performs inventory gathering and retrieves hardware information for any active logical partitions on the managed server. The resulting new system plan contains hardware information from the inventory-gathering process and hardware information from the hardware inventory cache on the system.  Optional:  Now that you have a new system plan, you can export the system plan, import it onto another managed system, and deploy the system plan to that managed system.  To use the  () to create a system plan successfully, you need to ensure that your system meets a number of prerequisite conditions. The quantity and quality of hardware information that the  can capture in a new system plan varies based on your version of the  and the operating environment of the logical partition for which you are capturing information. Use this information to help resolve problems that you might encounter when creating a system plan with the  () Version 7 Release 3.3, and later. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:    |      
 Requirements for creating a system plan on the HMC To use the  () to create a system plan successfully, you need to ensure that your system meets a number of prerequisite conditions. A system plan that you create by using  V7.3.3, or later, contains hardware information that the  is able to obtain from the selected managed system. However, the amount of hardware information that the  can capture for the new system plan varies based on the method that the  uses to gather the hardware information.  The  can potentially use two methods: inventory gathering and hardware discovery.   You cannot create system plans on  blade servers. To create a system plan successfully, you need to ensure that your system meets the following requirements: If you meet all requirements and system plan creation is failing with a specific type of problem or you are not capturing the type of information that you are expecting to capture, see  to determine the possible nature of the problem and potential actions that you can take to resolve it. Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Requirements for hardware discovery on the HMC By meeting the requirements for using the hardware discovery process, you can enhance the quality and quantity of data that you collect in the system plans that you create on the  (). To use the hardware discovery capability when you create a system plan, ensure that you complete the following tasks: Ensure that a minimum of 0.5 processor is available.  Ensure that a minimum of 256 MB of free memory is available.   If you do not have the minimum processor or memory available, you can meet these requirements either by shutting down one or more logical partitions or by adjusting dynamic processor and memory settings for one or more logical partitions. Ensure that all logical partitions on the managed system for which you want to use the hardware discovery process are inactive to maximize the information that the hardware discovery process can capture.  If a logical partition is active, the hardware discovery process cannot capture new information from the logical partition and instead retrieves information about the hardware assigned to the inactive logical partition from the hardware inventory cache on the managed system.  Hardware discovery does not require the use of Resource Monitoring and Control (RMC). Ensure that the  attribute for the managed system is not selected. The hardware discovery process starts partitions and powers off partitions to gather information. If the hardware discovery process powers off the only running partition on the system, the managed system powers off and system plan creation fails. To verify the setting for this system attribute, complete these steps: In the  navigation area, select . In the Tasks area, click . The Properties window for the selected managed system opens. On the  tab, verify that the  attribute is not selected, and click .   Parent topic:     |      
 Hardware discovery process on the HMC Starting with the  () Version 7 Release 3.2, and later, the  can use the hardware discovery process to capture additional information in a system plan about the hardware on a managed system.  Some systems have the capability to provide greater details about their hardware inventory through the process of hardware discovery. Hence, you can create a system plan with more extensive hardware information. By using the hardware discovery process, the  Version 7 Release 3.2, and later, can capture information about hardware that does not have a logical partition assignment and hardware with assignments to inactive logical partitions.   If you create a system plan with the intention of converting the system plan for use in the  (), you must use the latest version of the  to create the system plan. For example, to obtain disk-drive configuration information that the  can convert successfully in a system plan, you must use  Version 7 Release 3.3, or later, to have the hardware discovery process capture detailed disk-drive configuration information.  Additionally, the hardware discovery process writes hardware inventory information to a cache on the system. The hardware inventory cache ensures that a certain amount of hardware information is available on the system when you create a system plan. The  can use the data in this cache when you create a system plan to obtain more detailed hardware information for any logical partitions that are active at that time. On a system that can use hardware discovery, the hardware discovery process runs whenever the system is powered on in hardware discovery mode. When you enable this option, the system powers on in a special mode that performs the hardware discovery process and records hardware inventory information to a cache on the system. This collected information is then available for use when you display data for I/O devices or when creating a system plan.  You also can run the hardware discovery process when you create a system plan. If the managed system is capable of hardware discovery, the Create System Plan page provides an option for running hardware discovery. By using this option called , you can capture hardware configuration information for the managed system, regardless of the state of the hardware. When using this option, the  uses both the data it collects from the updated inventory cache and the data it collects from the inventory gathering process as sources of information to create the system plan.  It is recommended that you use the  option whenever you add or change the hardware while the new or changed hardware is deallocated from a partition. Otherwise, if the new or changed hardware is allocated to a partition, use this option to create the system plan when the partition is inactive. Doing so ensures that the inventory cache has the most current data possible. The following figure shows how the hardware discovery process works when you select this option. In the figure, the  uses the inventory gathering process to collect information about the active partitions and the hardware assigned to them. The  uses hardware discovery to collect information about the hardware assigned to the inactive  partition and about the unassigned hardware on the system. The  writes all the data collected by both processes to the system plan. The data collected through hardware discovery is also written to the inventory cache on the system. The  uses both sources of information to create the system-plan file. When you create a system plan and do not select the  option, the  does not perform a new hardware discovery. Instead the  uses the data in the inventory cache on the system. The  still performs inventory gathering and retrieves hardware information for any active logical partitions on the managed server. The resulting new system plan contains the hardware information that the  obtained from the inventory gathering process, and hardware information that the  obtained from the hardware inventory cache on the system.  The following figure illustrates how the hardware discovery process works when you do not select this option.  In the figure, the  uses the inventory gathering process only to collect information about the inactive partition and the hardware assigned to it. The  completes the system plan by using hardware information from the inventory cache for the active logical partitions on the managed server.  By meeting the requirements for using the hardware discovery process, you can enhance the quality and quantity of data that you collect in the system plans that you create on the  (). Parent topic:     |      
 Optimizing data when creating a system plan on the HMC The quantity and quality of hardware information that the  can capture in a new system plan varies based on your version of the  and the operating environment of the logical partition for which you are capturing information. The following factors affect the quantity of hardware information in a system plan that you create: Type and level of management tool. You can capture most of the data when using an  Version 7 Release 3.2, or later, because these versions of the  have two methods that they can use to gather hardware information. Earlier versions of the  do not have the same capabilities and provide less detailed information. Operating environment. You can capture more data for logical partitions that run  than for logical partitions that run on the  or  operating system. Depending on the code level of your , the  can use different methods to capture data about the hardware on your system, as the following table describes. Method  availability Information captured Inventory gathering  Version 7 Release 3.0, and later Hardware assigned to active logical partitions Hardware discovery  Version 7 Release 3.2, and later Hardware assigned to inactive logical partitions or hardware that is not assigned to a logical partition Enhanced hardware discovery Hardware assigned to inactive logical partitions or hardware that is not assigned to a logical partition The information captured also includes SCSI disk drives on  processor-based servers, and later. The  always performs inventory gathering to capture detailed information for hardware that is assigned to an active logical partition.  Starting with the  () Version 7 Release 3.2, and later, the  can use the hardware discovery process to capture additional information in a system plan about the hardware on a managed system.  By setting up your system to optimize the hardware information that you capture in a system plan that you create by using the , you can ensure that your system plan provides you with the most valuable information possible. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:    |      
 Inventory gathering process on the HMC The  always performs inventory gathering to capture detailed information for hardware that is assigned to an active logical partition.  The inventory gathering process can capture information for PCI cards and disk-drive configuration information for an active logical partition and record this information in your system plan. However, the process also extends the time it takes to create a system plan by several minutes. The following figure shows how inventory gathering works. In this figure, the information about the active , and  partitions is collected and placed in a system-plan file on the .  The process does not collect information about the hardware assigned to the inactive partition and the hardware that is not assigned to a partition. By meeting the requirements for using the inventory gathering process, you can enhance the quality and quantity of data that you collect in the system plans that you create on the  (). Parent topic:     |      
 Tips for maximizing data in a system plan on the HMC By setting up your system to optimize the hardware information that you capture in a system plan that you create by using the , you can ensure that your system plan provides you with the most valuable information possible.   To ensure that you get the most detailed and complete data in your system plans, follow these guidelines:  After you place all the hardware in the system and verify that any internal drive bay cabling and external SCSI cabling is correct, maximize the amount of data in the inventory cache and keep the inventory cache current on the managed system. You can perform this action in one of following ways:Power on your system with the Hardware Discovery option selected. Perform this action when you initially power on the system and whenever you add, remove, or move hardware on your system when making such a change requires that you power down the system to do so.  When you add, remove, or move hardware and such a changed does not require that you power off the system to do so, update the cache by creating a system plan with the  option selected. Create the system plan when the affected logical partitions are inactive. Optimize the data for your logical partitions. To optimize the amount of data collected for your logical partitions, follow these steps:Ensure that the data in the inventory cache is maximized and is current on the managed system, as described in the first guideline. Now, you can activate the logical partitions that you want to include in the system plan and complete the Create a system plan task without using the  option. This action ensures that the resulting system plan contains the most detailed and current information possible for all the hardware and logical partitions on the system. Perform this task any time that you create and activate new logical partitions. Parent topic:     |      
 System plan conversion You can convert a system-plan file that you have created by using the  () into the format that the  () uses. Converting a system plan so that you can work with it in the  has several benefits: You can reconfigure your existing system and validate the changes in  before deploying them on your server. For example, you can try adding or moving some parts, or changing the layout of the partitions.  You can plan an upgrade to a new system.  You can move workloads from one system to another. You can even move a partition configuration from one system to another and ensure that the configuration works with the existing hardware.  You can validate that the configuration on the system is what you want it to be. To convert a system plan that you created by using the  into the  format successfully, ensure that you optimize the data that you collect when you create the plan. See . You must also gather some information to prepare for the conversion and to understand the limitations of the conversion process. After you complete the conversion process, you can edit the system plan for redeployment of newly added partitions.  For example, assume that you converted an  system plan that contains two client logical partitions. You can use the  to add another logical partition and specify virtual Ethernet adapters and virtual Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) adapters for the new partition. You can then use the  to redeploy the changed system plan to configure the new logical partition.  Although you can add partitions, you cannot use  to change existing items and redeploy the system plan to the original managed system. See  to learn more about the validation considerations that can affect deployment of the system plan. Before you convert the system plan to the format that the  () uses for system plans, you must collect some information to use during the conversion process. You can convert a system plan that you created on the  () for use in the  (). However, there are some limitations in the data that the  can convert. Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Preparing for system plan conversion Before you convert the system plan to the format that the  () uses for system plans, you must collect some information to use during the conversion process. Your original system-plan file remains intact after the conversion. You will not lose any of your data. When you convert your system plan to the format that the  uses for system plans, the  gives the converted plan a new name and saves it as a new system plan. Before you convert a system plan to the format that the  uses for system plans, you must collect some information to use during the conversion process. Some of this information can help with potential conversion limitations. You must gather the following information: System attributes: You must provide the processor, server, and edition features for the system that you want to convert. The  Conversion Wizard narrows the options to those options that are valid for the system you are converting, but you must select the correct values from the list of valid options. Additional system units: If your processor feature has multiple system units that support different processor features, select the correct processor feature for each system unit from a list of valid options. Backplane: If the system in the plan that you are converting supports more than one type of backplane, select the backplane that your system uses from a list of valid options.   Logical partitions: When you convert your system-plan file to the  format, select the logical partitions that you want to include in the converted plan. Thus, you can pick just the logical partitions that you want to work with in the . For example, if you are considering moving a particular workload to a new system, you can select just those logical partitions that are used to run that workload and include them in the plan that is converted to the  format.After you know the logical partitions that you want to include, select the profile to associate with each logical partition in the converted plan. The  can only associate one profile with a logical partition. For this reason, you might be required to convert your original system plan more than once to work with different views of the data. For example, if you have logical partitions that use one profile during the day and another profile at night, select the logical partitions and profiles that are used at the same time to ensure that your converted system plan has an accurate view of how your system is used. You also might be required to select the operating system of the logical partition, if that information is unavailable in your original system plan. Expansion units: You must match the enclosures at the top and bottom of any double-high expansion units that are attached to your system. To perform this task, procure the serial numbers of the enclosures at the top and bottom of the double-high expansion unit when you use the wizard. Adapters: You must identify the adapters in each physical location on your system. Based on the vital product data that the system plan contains, the  identifies as many adapters as possible. For those adapters that the  is unable to identify, the  can provide a few possibilities for you to select from. However, if those possibilities are not correct, or if the  cannot identify any possibilities, you might be required to provide the FRU, CCIN, part number, or feature number of the correct adapter. If you do not know the number, you can find it by looking at the physical system or by using the following operating system commands to query and obtain the correct number: Operating environment Command When to use the command Use this command if you have a number of adapters to look up because the command writes the results for multiple adapters to a single output file.  Use this command to access the Hardware Resource Manager. By using this command, you can look up information about individual adapters. Use this command if you only have a few numbers to look up. Use this command if you are trying to obtain information about an adapter in a hot-plug slot. By using this command, you can view all the adapters and integrated hardware for the hot-plug slot so that you can determine the adapter for which you need the number. Use this command if you are trying to obtain information about an adapter that is not in a hot-plug slot, or if you have already used the  command to obtain adapter information for a hot-plug slot. You can find additional details about how to use these commands in the online help for the  Conversion Wizard. After you finish preparing for the conversion process, export the system plan that you want to convert from the  (). Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:    |      
 Limitations of system plan conversion  You can convert a system plan that you created on the  () for use in the  (). However, there are some limitations in the data that the  can convert. By setting up your system to optimize the hardware information that you capture when you create a system plan by using the , you can ensure that your system plan provides you with the most valuable information possible.  There are some limitations in the data that the  can convert at this time. The system plans that you create by using the  contain information about the hardware parts that are on your system. To convert one of these plans, the  maps the information about the parts back to the features that represent those parts.  In some cases, the  plans do not contain enough information for the  to do the necessary mapping conclusively. For hardware parts with inconclusive mapping information, the  performs one of the following actions to resolve the inconclusive mapping: When possible, the  Conversion Wizard prompts you for additional information about the parts during the conversion process. For example, in the case of PCI cards, the wizard prompts you to provide a part identifier for the card or to select the card from a list.  The wizard identifies the part based on what it knows from the  system plan, even if the information is not conclusive.  The wizard disregards the part if the level of information in the plan is insufficient to do any kind of identification. The following table shows some specific examples of parts or configurations that are more difficult to convert and what  does when it encounters them. Part or configuration  action during conversion Logical partitions with more than one partition profile  can only convert one profile per logical partition. SPT prompts you to select the profile you want to use for that partition during the conversion process. Cards that are referred to by more than one partition profile  assigns the card to the first profile it encounters that references the card and discards all other references to the card. CD, DVD, or optical storage  does not convert these devices. Disk drives in a Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) array  does not convert any information about these drives. The following table describes the type of hardware information that you can expect to see in a system plan that you convert to  format. The type of information that you can expect is based on the management tool that you use to create the plan and the types of logical partitions in the system plan. Management tool  processors  All other operating environments  Version 7 Release 7.1 (when you optimize data collection for the system plan) Most cards. All disk drives.  Most cards. Most disk drives.  Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:    |      
 Troubleshooting system plan conversion When you convert a system plan into the format that the  () uses, you might encounter some problems that you must resolve or understand better. Problem: My  () system plan is not as detailed as I expected it to be. Solution: The following factor the quantity of data that you can capture when you create your system plan:Type and level of management tool. You can capture most of the data by using an  Version 7.3.3, or later. Earlier versions of the  provide less detailed information for any managed system. You also cannot capture any  provisioning information for  servers in earlier versions. Operating environment. You can capture more data for logical partitions that run  than for those logical partitions that run on the  or  operating system. Ensure that you optimize the data that you collect in the system plan when you create the plan on the . Problem: I do not see some of my hardware in the converted plan Solution: At this time, the  Conversion Wizard might not be able to identify all the hardware that is in your system plan. It identifies some components based on the information it has and ignores others if it does not have enough information to make an identification. When you get to the end of the wizard, you can view information about the hardware that the wizard was not able to identify. For more information about handling conversion messages, see . Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Converting a system plan to System Planning Tool format You can use the  () Conversion Wizard to convert a system plan, which you created on an  (), to the format that the  uses for system plans.  After you export a system plan from the , you are ready to convert that system plan into the format that the  uses.  Before you use the  Conversion Wizard, be sure that you have the information you collected as described in . Some of the information that you collect can help you minimize potential conversion limitations.  There are two parts to the conversion process. First, you convert the system-plan file to the  format by using the wizard. Second, you complete the conversion by handling any messages or warnings that you receive in the . After you gather the necessary information, complete these steps to convert the system plan by using the SPT Conversion Wizard:  The Open System Plan window is displayed.  The Work with Planned Systems page appears with a message to indicate that you must convert the file to SPT format before you can use the  to edit it.  The Overview page of the Conversion Wizard appears.  The System Attributes page opens. From the System Attributes page, and many others in the wizard, you can save your selections by clicking . The wizard saves the selections that you have made, but does not create a system-plan file because the conversion process is not complete. If you exit the wizard before converting the system plan and restart the wizard at a later time, your previous selections are displayed on the appropriate pages as you progress through the wizard.   If your processor feature supports multiple system units, the Additional system units page appears.  If your system in your plan supports different backplanes, the Backplane page appears.  The Partitions page appears.  By default, all logical partitions are selected to be included in the converted system plan. If a logical partition has more than one profile associated with it, you must select the profile that you want to include with this logical partition in the converted system plan. A logical partition can have only one profile associated with it in the . If the  is unable to determine the operating system for the logical partition, select the operating system as well.  If you have double-high expansion units, the Expansion Units page appears.  You can use the serial numbers of the units to do this. If the wizard is unable to identify some adapters in the system plan, the Adapters page appears.  You also can select  for the list of adapters. This option groups those adapters that have the same set of possible feature code choices into a single group so that you can select all members of the group for identification. The Identify Adapters page appears.    The wizard deletes from the system plan any adapters that you do not identify.  The Summary page appears.  If you need to change any of the information, click  to return to the relevant pages in the wizard and make corrections. The Work with Planned Systems page appears. At this point, you have finished with the  Conversion Wizard. The  renames your original system-plan file by adding –converted to the end of the original file name. The next step is to handle any messages that the  provides about conversion results.  Do not exit the converted system-plan file until you handle messages. If you close the system-plan file now, you can no longer view the messages from the conversion.   When you finish using the Conversion Wizard, you must do additional configuration before your plan is valid in the  (). To see the messages from the conversion and understand what the  did when it converted the file, click the link for the system plan name in the Work with Planned Systems page. When you click this link, the System Plan Messages page shows what the SPT did with the hardware parts that it was not able to identify in your original system-plan file. For more information about the type of hardware you can expect to be in the converted system plan, see .   After you save and exit your converted system plan-file, these messages are lost, so do not exit the converted file until you address these messages. Messages with an exclamation point icon indicate that the  was not able to identify a part or was not able to interpret what to do with a part from your original system plan. You need to add the specified part manually into the converted plan. Messages with an informational icon indicate that the  placed or configured a part based on the data it had available to it. You need to review these instances to be sure the information is correct. When you convert a system plan into the format that the  () uses, you might encounter some problems that you must resolve or understand better. Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 System planning tool The  () helps you design a managed system that can support a specified set of workloads.  You can design a managed system based on workload data from your current systems, based on new workloads that you want the managed system to support, based on sample systems that are provided with the utility, or based on your own custom specifications. The  helps you design a system to fit your needs, whether you want to design a logically partitioned system or want to design an unpartitioned system.  incorporates the function from Workload Estimator to help you create an overall system plan. The  opens the Workload Estimator to help you gather and integrate workload data, and provides advanced users with the option of creating a system plan without the help of additional tools.  The  currently does not help you plan for high availability on logical partitions or Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) solutions. There are a number of options available to help you get started with using the :You can use the sample system plans that the  provides as a starting point for planning your system. You can create a system plan based on existing performance data. You can create a system plan based on new or anticipated workloads. You can create a system plan by using the  () or the  (). You can then use the  to convert the system plan to  format, and modify the system plan for use in system ordering or system deployment. With the , you can copy logical partitions from a system in one system plan to either another system in the same system plan or to a different system in another system plan. For example, you can build up system plans that contain your own sample logical partitions, and then copy one or more of these sample logical partitions into a new system plan that you are creating. You also can copy a logical partition within the same system plan. For example, you can define the attributes of a partition within a system plan and then make 7 copies of that partition within the same plan. You can export a system plan as a .cfr file and import it into the marketing configurator (eConfig) tool to use for ordering a system. When you import the .cfr file into the eConfig tool, the tool populates your order with the information from the .cfr file. However, the .cfr file does not contain all the information that the eConfig tool requires. You will need to enter all required information before you can submit your order. If you make any changes to the hardware assignments or placement in the system, the  validates the changes to ensure that the resulting system fulfills the minimum hardware requirements and hardware placement requirements for the logical partitions. When you are done making changes to the system, you can save your work as a system plan. You can import this file into your  or . You then can deploy the system plan to a managed system that the  or the  manages. When you deploy the system plan, the  or the  creates the logical partitions from the system plan on the managed system that is the target of the deployment. To download the , see the IBM  website. You can convert a system-plan file that you have created by using the  () into the format that the  () uses. You can use the  () Conversion Wizard to convert a system plan, which you created on an  (), to the format that the  uses for system plans.  Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 System plans A system plan is a specification of the hardware and the logical partitions contained in one or more systems. You can use system plans in a number of ways that are useful for managing your system.  For example, you can use a system plan to create a record of hardware and logical partition configuration data for a system, to create a set of system specifications for ordering a system, or to deploy logical partitions to a system. A system plan is stored in a system-plan file, which has a file suffix of .sysplan. A system-plan file can contain more than one system plan, although multiple plans in a single file are not common. After you create a system plan, you also can view, delete, and export the system plan.  System plans have a number of valuable uses. For example, you can use system plans to accomplish the following goals: You can create a system plan as a means of capturing up-to-date system documentation. The system plan provides a record of the hardware and logical partition configuration of the managed system at a given time.  You can use a system plan that you create for system documentation as part of your disaster recovery planning. On the  (), you can export the system-plan file to an off-site location or to removable media for off-site storage so that you have the system documentation that you need available if you must recover a managed system.  Although the system plan contains a large amount of system configuration information, it does not contain all the configuration information for a system. Consequently, the system plan is not intended to provide complete system documentation. You can use system plans as audit records to track system hardware resources for accounting and accountability purposes by exporting the information in them to a spreadsheet.  You can use system plans to help you plan new workloads that require additional system and hardware resources. You can use a system plan, along with appropriate capacity planning information, to make decisions about whether your current system can handle a new workload.  You can create a system plan based on one managed system and deploy the system plan on another system to more quickly and easily create logical partitions on that system.  You can use the  () to design a managed system based on workload data from your current systems, based on new workloads that you want the managed system to support, based on sample systems that are provided with the utility, or based on your own custom specifications. You can then use the system plan to order a system based on the specifications that the system plan contains. Also, you can use the  to deploy the system plan to configure an existing system when the target system meets the requirements for deployment. You can create a system plan by using one of the following methods: IBM  (): You can create a system plan to capture the configuration of a system or systems that you want to order. A system-plan file created in the  can contain more than one system plan, although multiple plans in a single file are not common. : You can create a system plan that documents the configuration of a system that is managed by the .  Read about new or significantly changed information for system plans since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF file of System plans information. The  () helps you design a managed system that can support a specified set of workloads.  You can use system plans with the  () to perform a number of high-level system management tasks.  Related information:    |      
 What's new in System plans Read about new or significantly changed information for system plans since the previous update of this topic collection. May 2011The following updates have been made to the content: The  can be used to manage  servers. You can use the  to manage AIX® and Linux logical partitions on  servers. The following information is new or updated for system plans on the : February 2010Added information for  servers that contain the  processor.The February 2010 version of the , and later versions, no longer support the ability to plan  () provisioning or operating environment installation on  managed systems. The  Version 7 Release 7.1, and later, no longer supports the ability to create system plans that contain  provisioning or operating environment information on  managed systems. Also, you can no longer deploy  provisioning or install operating environments by using a system plan on the  for  managed systems.  The  () Version 2.1.2 with Fix Pack 22.1 and Service Pack 1, and later, no longer supports system plans on  managed systems. Parent topic:     |      
 System plans on the HMC You can use system plans with the  () to perform a number of high-level system management tasks.  You can use system plans with the  to accomplish the following goals: You can deploy a system plan that you create based on one system that an  manages to other systems that the  manages with identical hardware as in the system plan. Any internal drive bays and external SCSI cables also must be cabled in an identical manner on the target system. In this way, you can rapidly configure and use other, similar systems in your business. You can export a system plan from one  to another  and use it to deploy the system plan to other systems that the target  manages with identical hardware, and identical cabling, as that in the system plan. In this case and the previous case, you can use the system plan to create logical partitions on new managed systems that do not already have logical partitions created on them.  You can convert a system plan that you created by using the  for use in the  (). However, the  Conversion Wizard can convert a limited amount of hardware information from the original system plan. How much the wizard can convert depends on the operating environment of the logical partition and the version of the HMC that you used to create the system plan. You must use the  to manually specify any missing or incomplete information.  For example, assume that you converted an  system plan that contains two client logical partitions. You can use the  to add another logical partition and to specify Ethernet adapters, Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) disks, and virtual Ethernet adapters for the new partition. You can then use the  to redeploy the modified system plan to configure the new logical partition.  After you create or convert a system plan on the , you can use the  to deploy the system plan. However, the  must validate this system plan successfully before you can deploy it. The  only supports deployment of system plans on which you have created logical partitions and logical partition profiles. It does not support deployment of system plans on which you have modified attributes of existing logical partitions and logical partition profiles. For example, if you use the  to add a logical partition and assign unassigned resources to the logical partition, you can deploy the system plan by using the . However, if you use the  to move resources from an existing logical partition to a new logical partition, you cannot deploy the system plan by using the . To create logical partitions from a system plan, you must first complete the following tasks:Create the system plan. Import the system plan (when necessary). If you are deploying a system plan that you created in the , verify that cards and disk drives on the target system are in the same locations specified for the cards and disk drives that are in the system plan. Also, verify that any cabling instructions for disk-drive bays have been followed. You can obtain these instructions by using the Report function in the . If you are deploying a system plan that you created by using the , verify that the hardware and cabling on the target system is identical to the hardware and cabling on the source system.  Deploy the system plan. After you create a system plan, you also can view, delete, and export the system plan. The following table provides a complete overview of system plan tasks. Task Overview Create a system plan You can create system plans by using any of the following methods:  ()SPT helps you design a system to fit your needs, whether you want to design a logically partitioned system or design an unpartitioned system.  incorporates the function from the Workload Estimator to help you create an overall system plan. The  opens the Workload Estimator to help you gather and integrate workload data, and provides advanced users with the option to create a system plan without the help of additional tools.  () web-user interfaceYou can use the  to create a system plan based on the configuration of one managed system and then use the  to deploy that plan to another managed system. Based on the logical partition configuration in the system plan, the  creates logical partitions on the managed system to which it deploys the system plan.  command-line interfaceYou can use the  command to create a system plan. After the system plan is created, you can also use the command-line interface to deploy that plan to a managed system. Based on the logical partition configuration in the system plan, the  creates logical partitions on the managed system to which it deploys the system plan. Import the system plan Before you can use a system plan to create logical partitions, the system-plan file must exist on the  that manages the managed system to which you want to deploy the system plan. If the system-plan file does not exist on the , you must import the file into the . You can use the  web-user interface to import the file into the  from one of the following sources: Upload the system-plan file from the remote console (the computer from which you remotely access the ) Copy the system-plan file to media (optical disc or USB drive), insert the media into the , and import the file from the media.  Download the system-plan file from a remote FTP site.  After you import the system-plan file into an , you can deploy the system plan within that file to other systems that the  manages.   You can also import a system plan by using any of the following methods:Run the  command from the  command-line interface. Run the  command from the  command-line interface. Use the  web-user interface.  Deploy the system plan You can choose to deploy a system plan in stages, with some logical partitions being created in one stage, and other logical partitions being created in later stages. However, you cannot deploy a system plan to a managed system if the managed system has logical partitions that are not also in the system plan.When you deploy a system plan by using the  web-user interface, the  validates the system plan. The managed system on which you deploy a system plan must have hardware, including any internal drive bay cabling and external SCSI cabling, that is identical to the hardware in the system plan. The  deploys a system plan to a managed system only if the system plan level is supported by the , the format of the system plan is valid, and the hardware and each existing logical partition on the managed system passes validation. Export the system plan You can use the  web-user interface to export a system-plan file from the  to one of the following locations: Save the system-plan file to the remote console (the computer from which you remotely access the ). Export the system-plan file to media that is mounted to the  (such as optical discs or USB drives). Export the system-plan file to a remote FTP site.  View the system plan You can look at the contents of a system-plan file in the  by using the System Plan Viewer that is integrated with the . The System Plan Viewer uses a navigation tree and tables to display the information in the system-plan file. It includes features such as dynamic table-column sorting and displaying EADS boundary lines. You can open a system plan in the System Plan Viewer, either by using the View System Plan task or by clicking the name of a system plan. When you start the System Plan Viewer, you must enter your  user ID and password before you can view the system plan.  Some messages, such as cabling instructions for internal drive bays, are viewable only when you use the System Plan Viewer in the . Print the system plan You can use the System Plan Viewer to print a system plan that you have open in the Viewer. You can print all of the system plan or a portion of the system plan, depending on the current view of the system plan. To print the current view of the system plan, click  in the Actions pane of the System Plan Viewer.  Delete the system plan You can delete unnecessary system plans from your .  You can use the  () to create a system plan, based on an existing system configuration, and then deploy that system plan to other managed systems. You can import a system-plan file into a  () from various types of media, a remote FTP site, or the computer from which you remotely access the . You can then deploy the imported system plan to a system that the  manages. You can use the  () to deploy all or part of a system plan to a managed system. You can export a system-plan file from a  () to various types of media, to a remote FTP site, or to the computer from which you remotely access the . You can use the System Plan Viewer on the  () to view a system plan. Removing a system plan from the  () does not undo any partition or hardware configuration changes that occurred if the specified system plan was deployed on a managed system. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:    |      
 Importing a system plan into an HMC You can import a system-plan file into a  () from various types of media, a remote FTP site, or the computer from which you remotely access the . You can then deploy the imported system plan to a system that the  manages. You can import a system-plan file into the  from any of the following locations: From the computer on which you remotely access the .  From various media that is mounted on the , such as optical discs or USB drives. From a remote site by using FTP. To use this option, you must fulfill the following requirements:The  must have a network connection to the remote site. An FTP server must be active on the remote site. Port 21 must be open on the remote site.  You cannot import a system plan that has an identical name to any system plan that is available on the . To import a system-plan file, you must be a super administrator. For more information about user roles, see . To import a system-plan file into the , complete the following steps:  The Import System Plan window opens. Source of the system plan to import Complete the following steps: This computer Select . Click  to display the Upload File window. Click . Select the system-plan file that you want to import and click . Click  to upload the file. Media Select . In the  field, enter the name of the system-plan file.  The name of the system-plan file must end with the  file name suffix and can use alphanumeric characters only.  In the  field, enter the path in which the system-plan file is located on the media.  Specify the subdirectory location only, rather than the fully qualified path and file name. Click  to display the Select Media Device window. Select the media that contains the system-plan file that you want to import.  Ensure that you know the name of the device that you want to select. For example,  is typically the default device name for the USB drive on most systems. However, device names can vary from system to system. Click . Remote FTP site Select . In the  field, enter the name of the system-plan file.  The name of the system-plan file must end with the  file name suffix and can use alphanumeric characters only.  In the  field, enter the host name or IP address of the remote FTP site. In the  field, enter the user ID to use to access the remote FTP site. In the  field, enter the password to use to access the remote FTP site. In the  field, enter the path in which the system-plan file is located on the remote FTP site. If you do not enter a path, the  uses the default path specified on the remote FTP site.  If the  returns an error, return to the Import System Plan window and verify that the information you entered is correct. If necessary, click , return to step , and redo the procedure, ensuring that the information you specify at each step is correct. When you complete the process of importing the system-plan file, you can deploy the system plan in the system-plan file to a system that the  manages. If you imported the system-plan file from media, you can unmount the media by using the  command from the  command-line interface.  Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:    |      
 Deleting a system plan from an HMC Removing a system plan from the  () does not undo any partition or hardware configuration changes that occurred if the specified system plan was deployed on a managed system.  To remove a system plan from the , complete the following steps:  The Remove System Plans window opens.  As an alternative to the  web-user interface, you can use the  () web-user interface to delete a system plan. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:    |      
 Deploying a system plan by using the HMC You can use the  () to deploy all or part of a system plan to a managed system. When you deploy a system plan, the  creates logical partitions on the managed system according to the specifications in the system plan.  You do not have to deploy a system plan in its entirety. Instead, you can partially deploy a system plan on the target system by selecting the logical partitions in the plan to deploy. You can run the Deploy System Plan Wizard again at another time to deploy the remainder of the logical partitions in the system plan.   Version 7 Release 7.1, and later, does not support  () provisioning and operating environment installation for  processor-based servers when you deploy a system plan. Before you deploy a system plan, complete the following tasks: Ensure that the system-plan file exists on the . If the system-plan file does not exist on the , you must import the system-plan file into the . For instructions, see . Ensure that you meet all the appropriate requirements for deploying the system plan. See    To deploy a system plan on a managed system by using the , complete the following steps:  The Deploy System Plan Wizard starts.  If the system plan does not match the managed system to which you want to deploy the plan, the wizard displays a window with this information. Click  to continue, or  to select a different system plan. If the system-plan file contains multiple system plans, the wizard provides a step so that you can select a specific system plan from the file. The wizard does not provide this step unless there is more than one system plan in the specified file.   The validation process can take several minutes.   To help you correct any validation problems, you might want to create a system plan that is based on the current configuration of the managed system. By using such a system plan, you can compare the system plan that you want to deploy with the current configuration of the managed system. You can do this by using the Create System Plan task in the , or by running the following command from the  command line:  -m name_of_managed_system -f name_of_new_system_plan.sysplan  This action creates a system plan that you can view and compare to the old system plan to help diagnose any problems.  Optional:  Virtual serial adapters are required in virtual slots 0 and 1 for each logical partition. You cannot create the logical partition unless you create these virtual serial adapters.  The  uses the system plan to create the specified logical partitions. This process can take several minutes.  To use the  () to deploy a system plan successfully, you must ensure that your system meets the prerequisite conditions. You deploy a system plan to a system that is managed by a  () managed system by using the System Plan Deployment Wizard. The wizard validates the information in the system plan against the configuration of the managed system before beginning the deployment process. Use the following information to help resolve problems that you might encounter when deploying a system plan with the  () Version 7.3.3, and later. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:    |      
 Requirements for deploying a system plan on the HMC To use the  () to deploy a system plan successfully, you must ensure that your system meets the prerequisite conditions. To deploy or to create a system plan successfully, you must ensure that your system meets the requirements in the following tables. Prerequisite Description System setup Delete the logical partition that was provided with your server, and delete any other logical partition that is not in the system plan. For instructions, see . The name of the logical partition that was provided with the server is the serial number of the managed system, and the name of the partition profile is default_profile. Requirements for physical disk I/O adapter Locate the physical disk I/O adapters that belong to each logical partition. Verify that the disk drives that are attached to these physical I/O adapters support the configuration for each logical partition that you want. The Deploy System Plan Wizard only validates that the physical disk I/O adapters match the system plan. It does not validate that the disk drives are configured for the physical disk I/O adapters.  If you are deploying a system plan that you created by using the , verify that the hardware and cabling on the target system is identical to that on the source system. If the system plan includes a storage area network (SAN) or fibre channel adapters, ensure that the adapters are cabled and that the SAN is configured. If you meet all the listed prerequisite conditions and system plan deployment is failing with a specific type of problem, see the troubleshooting topics to determine the possible nature of the problem and potential actions that you can take to resolve it. Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Troubleshooting system plan deployment for an HMC Use the following information to help resolve problems that you might encounter when deploying a system plan with the  () Version 7.3.3, and later. The system plan deployment process writes any messages, including error messages to the  file or to the  file if there are validation errors. When you deploy a system plan, the validation process checks the information in the system plan with the configuration of the managed system. Some differences between the plan and the system can result in either hardware or partition validation errors. To deploy the system plan successfully, you must either change the system plan or change the target managed system. Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Exporting a system plan from an HMC You can export a system-plan file from a  () to various types of media, to a remote FTP site, or to the computer from which you remotely access the . You can export a system-plan file from the  to any of the following locations: To the computer on which you remotely access the .  To media that is mounted on the  (such as optical discs or USB drives). To a remote site by using FTP. This allows you to import the system-plan file into a different  and deploy the system plan to a managed system with identical hardware. To use this option, you must fulfill the following requirements:The  must have a network connection to the remote site. An FTP server must be active on the remote site. Port 21 must be open on the remote site. To export a system-plan file, you must be a super administrator. For more information about user roles, see . To export a system-plan file that is stored on the , complete the following steps:  The Export System Plan window opens. Export destination for the system plan Complete the following steps: This computer Select . Click  to display the Save File window. Click the file name link and use the save file function of your browser to save the file to a location on your local file system. Click  to close the window after you have saved the file. Media  Select . In the  field, enter the path on the media to which to export the system-plan file.  Specify the subdirectory location only, rather than the fully qualified path and file name. Click  to display the Select Media Device window. Select the media to which you want to export the system plan file. Click . Remote FTP site Select . Enter the host name or IP address of the remote FTP site into the  field. Enter the user ID to use to access the remote FTP site into the  field. Enter the password to use to access the remote FTP site into the  field. Enter the path to which you want to export the system-plan file into the  field. If you do not enter a path, the  exports the system-plan file to the default path specified on the remote FTP site.  If the  returns an error, verify that the information you entered in this window is correct. If necessary, click , return to step , and redo the procedure, ensuring that the information you specify at each step is correct. If you exported the system-plan file to media, you can unmount the media by using the  command from the  command-line interface. You can then import the system-plan file into a different  so that you can deploy the system plan to systems that the other  manages. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:    |      
 Viewing a system plan on an HMC You can use the System Plan Viewer on the  () to view a system plan. The System Plan Viewer uses a navigation tree and tables to display the information in a system-plan file. The System Plan Viewer is included with the  so that it can be accessed from the . However, you must re-enter your user ID and password before you can view the system plan.  Some messages, such as internal drive bay cabling instructions can be viewed only when you use the System Plan Viewer in the SPT. With  Version 7 Release 7.4.0, or later, you can view information about expansion units, such as expansion unit loops and cable characteristics. To view a system plan from the , complete the following steps:  The System Plan Viewer opens in a separate browser window. You can also open the system plan in the System Plan Viewer by clicking the name of the system plan.  As an alternative to the  web-user interface, you can use the  () web-user interface to view a system plan. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:    |      
 Manage Users and Tasks Display the logged on users and the tasks they are running. In the HMC Management work pane, click . In the Manage Users and Tasks window, the following information displays:  User you are logged in as Time you logged in Number of tasks running Your access location Information about tasks that are running:  Task ID Task name Targets (if any) Session ID Choose to log off or disconnect from a session that is currently running by selecting the session from the Users  list, then click  or .  Alternately, you can choose to switch to another task or end a task by selecting the task from the  list, then click  or . When you have completed this task, click . Parent topic:          
 Managing the HMC This topic helps users to understand how to use the Hardware Management Console (HMC), describes the tasks you can use on the console, and describes how to navigate using the web-based user interface. Read about new or significantly changed information in Managing the HMC since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF file of this information. This section briefly describes some of the concepts and functions of the Hardware Management Console (HMC) and introduces the user interface that is used for accessing those functions.  You can use the web-based user interface to perform tasks on the Hardware Management Console (HMC) or on your managed resources. The roles discussed in this section refer to HMC users; operating systems running on logical partitions has its own set of users and roles. Systems Management displays tasks to manage servers, logical partitions, and frames. Use these tasks to set up, configure, view current status, troubleshoot, and apply solutions for servers.  Systems Management displays tasks you can perform to manage servers, logical partitions, and frames. Use these tasks to set up, configure, view current status, troubleshoot, and apply solutions for partitions.  Set up, configure, view current status, troubleshoot, and apply solutions for frames.  Systems Management for  displays  tasks that you can perform. Display the tasks used to record or import specifications for logical partitions, partition profiles, or hardware specifications on a chosen system. The tasks that are available on the Hardware Management Console (HMC) for the HMC Management tasks are described.  The tasks that are available on the HMC for the Service Management tasks are described.  Display tasks to manage Licensed Internal Code (LIC) on your HMC, managed system, power subsystem, or I/O adapters. Connect to and use the HMC remotely. The Customizable Data Replication service provides the ability to configure a set of Hardware Management Consoles (HMCs) to automatically replicate any changes to certain types of data so that the configured set of HMCs automatically keep this data synchronized without manual intervention.         
 PDF files for Managing the HMC You can view and print a PDF file of this information. This publication provides system administrators and system operators with information about using the  () version 7 and managed systems. This publication describes, at a high level, how to install and configure the HMC. This publication introduces the Hardware Management Console (HMC) version 7 and describes how to cable the HMC, configure the HMC software, and upgrade HMC machine code and system firmware. This publication is for the service representatives and users who perform these tasks. Detailed installation checklists are included. You can set up, manage, and troubleshoot   logical partitions using the Hardware Management Console (HMC), Integrated Virtualization Manager, or Virtual Partition Manager. By creating logical partitions, you can reduce the footprint of your datacenter by consolidating servers, and maximize the use of system resources by sharing resources across logical partitions. Capacity on Demand (CoD) using HMC Licensed Machine Code (Version 7) allows you to dynamically activate one or more resources on your server as your business peaks dictate. You can activate inactive processors or memory units that are already installed on your server on a temporary and permanent basis.  Parent topic:          
 Managing the HMC guide This publication provides system administrators and system operators with information about using the  () version 7 and managed systems.  	   (approximately 2 MB). Saving PDF filesLarge PDF files can be difficult to open online. For best results, save the PDF file to your local drive for viewing or printing. Follow these steps: Right-click the PDF link in your browser. Click the option that saves the PDF locally. Navigate to the directory in which you want to save the PDF file. Click . Downloading You need  installed on your system to view or print these PDF files. You can download a free copy from the . Parent topic:          
  PDF This topic describes, at a high level, how to install and configure the HMC.    (approximately 3 MB) Saving PDF filesLarge PDF files can be difficult to open online. For best results, save the PDF file to your local drive for viewing or printing. Follow these steps: Right-click the PDF link in your browser. Click the option that saves the PDF locally. Navigate to the directory in which you want to save the PDF file. Click . Saving PDF filesLarge PDF files can be difficult to open online. For best results, save the PDF file to your local drive for viewing or printing. Follow these steps: Right-click the PDF link in your browser. Click the option that saves the PDF locally. Navigate to the directory in which you want to save the PDF file. Click . Downloading You need  installed on your system to view or print these PDF files. You can download a free copy from the . Parent topic:          
 This topic introduces the  () version 7 and describes how to cable the , configure the  software, and upgrade  machine code and system firmware. This publication is for the service representatives and users who perform these tasks. Detailed installation checklists are included.    (approximately 3 MB) Saving PDF filesLarge PDF files can be difficult to open online. For best results, save the PDF file to your local drive for viewing or printing. Follow these steps: Right-click the PDF link in your browser. Click the option that saves the PDF locally. Navigate to the directory in which you want to save the PDF file. Click . Parent topic:          
 PDF file for  You can view and print a PDF of the logical partitioning information. You can set up, manage, and troubleshoot  logical partitions by using the  (), , or . By creating logical partitions, you can reduce the footprint of your datacenter by consolidating servers. You can also maximize the use of system resources by sharing resources across logical partitions. The  provides a Web-based system management interface and a command-line interface that you can use to manage some   that use the .   Parent topic:          
  PDF The  provides a Web-based system management interface and a command-line interface that you can use to manage some   that use the .    (approximately 1MB) Saving PDF filesLarge PDF files can be difficult to open online. For best results, save the PDF file to your local drive for viewing or printing. Follow these steps: Right-click the PDF link in your browser. Click the option that saves the PDF locally. Navigate to the directory in which you want to save the PDF file. Click . Downloading You need  installed on your system to view or print these PDF files. You can download a free copy from the . Parent topic:          
 Logical partitioning You can set up, manage, and troubleshoot  logical partitions using the  (), , or . By creating logical partitions, you can reduce the footprint of your datacenter by consolidating servers, and maximize the use of system resources by sharing resources across logical partitions. Read about new or changed information in Logical partitioning since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF of the logical partitioning information. Logical partitioning is the ability to make a server run as if it were two or more independent servers. When you logically partition a server, you divide the resources on the server into subsets called logical partitions. You can install software on a logical partition, and the logical partition runs as an independent logical server with the resources that you have allocated to the logical partition.  One of the best ways to learn about logical partitions is to see examples illustrating how many of the applications and functions can be used in a sample business environment. Use these scenarios to learn how you can use logical partitions in your business. You can create logical partitions to distribute resources within a single server and make it function as if it were two or more independent servers. Before creating logical partitions, you must assess your current and future needs. You can then use this information to determine the hardware configuration that will meet your current needs and serve as a base for meeting your future needs.  The  () is a system that controls managed systems, including the management of logical partitions and use of Capacity Upgrade on Demand. Using service applications, the  communicates with managed systems to detect, consolidate, and forward information  for analysis. You can use the  (), a component of the  hardware feature, to manage your  and client logical partitions.         
 Scenarios: Logical partitions One of the best ways to learn about logical partitions is to see examples illustrating how many of the applications and functions can be used in a sample business environment. Use these scenarios to learn how you can use logical partitions in your business. You can create a logical partition that acts as a virtual server on your managed system using the . When you create the logical partition, you specify the resources that the logical partition uses in a partition profile. With partition profiles, you can change the hardware configuration of a logical partition. With system profiles, you can change the hardware configuration of an entire managed system quickly and easily. When you dynamically move processor and memory resources between logical partitions, you can maximize resource utilization on your managed system by moving resources to wherever the resources are needed. If your server has inactive processor or memory resources, you can activate the inactive resources on a temporary or permanent basis with .  Parent topic:          
 Scenario: Creating a logical partition using the  You can create a logical partition that acts as a virtual server on your managed system using the . When you create the logical partition, you specify the resources that the logical partition uses in a partition profile. SituationAs the system administrator of a medium-sized technology company, you are responsible for configuring and managing the server that your company purchased. Your server has arrived and you are ready to start partitioning your model.  ObjectivesThe objective of this scenario is to create a logical partition and partition profile on a new server. Prerequisites and assumptionsThis scenario assumes that the following prerequisite steps have been completed and are operational before beginning the configuration steps: The  () was set up and configured. For instructions, see . You read and understand the . You completed the tasks recommended for logical partition planning. For instructions, see . You removed the system from the manufacturing default configuration and moved the physical hardware to support a partitioned configuration. For instructions, see . You logged in to the  with one of the following user roles: Super administrator Operator  Configuration stepsEnsure that all the prerequisites for this scenario have been completed before completing these tasks. To create a new logical partition on your server using the , follow these steps: In the navigation pane, open  and click . In the work pane, select the managed system, click the  button, and choose . Follow the steps in the Create Logical Partition wizard to create a logical partition and a partition profile. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Installing and configuring the Hardware Management Console  Describes how to install the HMC hardware, connect it to your managed system, and configure it for use. You can perform these tasks yourself, or contact a service provider to perform these tasks for you. You might be charged a fee by the service provider for this service. Read about new or significantly changed information in the Installing and configuring the HMC topic since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF of this information. Learn about the tasks associated with different HMC installation and configuration tasks. Learn about the network settings you can use on the HMC. Use this section to gather required configuration settings that you need to know before you begin the configuration steps.  Use this worksheet to have the installation information you need ready for the installation.  You must set up the HMC hardware before you configure the HMC software. Learn more about setting up a desk-side HMC or a rack-mounted HMC.  Configure network connections, security, service applications, and some user preferences. After you have installed and configured the HMC, back up HMC data as necessary. Updates and upgrades are periodically released for the HMC to add new functionality and to improve existing features. Learn more about the differences between updating, upgrading, and migrating your HMC machine code. Also learn how to perform an HMC machine code update, upgrade, or migration. You can find part locations by using location codes. Use the HMC port location illustrations to map a location code to the HMC port position on the server.         
 Updating, upgrading, and migrating your HMC machine code Updates and upgrades are periodically released for the HMC to add new functionality and to improve existing features. Learn more about the differences between updating, upgrading, and migrating your HMC machine code. Also learn how to perform an HMC machine code update, upgrade, or migration. When you are finished with each of these tasks, the HMC reboots but the partitions do not. Updating HMC code Applies maintenance to an existing HMC levelDoes not require that you perform the  task Upgrading HMC code Replaces HMC software with a new release or fix level of the same programRequires that you boot from recovery media Migrating HMC code Moves HMC data from one HMC version to another A migration is a type of upgrade. Find out how to view the HMC machine code version and release. Learn how to obtain machine code updates for the HMC when the HMC has an Internet connection. Learn how to obtain machine code updates for the HMC using DVD or an FTP server. Learn how to upgrade the software on an HMC from one release to the next while maintaining your HMC configuration data. Learn how to move the machine code on an HMC from Version 6 to Version 7 while maintaining your HMC configuration data. Learn how to upgrade the software on an HMC from a remote location using network upgrade images.  Parent topic:          
 Obtaining and applying machine code updates for the HMC using DVD or an FTP server Learn how to obtain machine code updates for the HMC using DVD or an FTP server. To obtain HMC machine code updates, perform steps 1-5. Parent topic:  Step 1. View the existing HMC machine code level To view the existing HMC machine code level, do the following: Step 2. View the available HMC machine code levels To view the available HMC machine code levels, do the following:   If you prefer, you can contact service and support. Step 3. Obtain the HMC machine code update To obtain the HMC machine code update, do the following: You can order the HMC machine code update through the Fix Central website, contact service and support, or download it to an FTP server. Ordering the HMC machine code update through the Fix Central Web site From a computer or server with an Internet connection, go to the Hardware Management Console website at  Under Supported HMC products, select the latest HMC level. Scroll down to the File name(s) / Package area and locate the update you want to order. In the Order column, select . Click  to sign in with your IBM ID. Follow the on-screen prompts to submit your order. Downloading the HMC machine code update to removable media From a computer or server with an Internet connection, go to the Hardware Management Console website at  Under Supported HMC products, select the latest HMC level. Scroll down to the File name(s) / Package area and locate the update you want to download. Click the update you want to download.  Accept the license agreement, and save the update to your removable media. When you are finished, continue with . Step 4. Apply the HMC machine code update To apply the HMC machine code update, do the following: Step 5. Verify that the HMC machine code update installed successfully To verify that the HMC machine code update installed successfully, do the following:  Retry the machine code update. If you created a DVD for this procedure, use a new media. If the problem persists, contact your next level of support.         
 Upgrading HMC from remote location using network upgrade images Learn how to upgrade the software on an HMC from a remote location using network upgrade images.  Learn how to upgrade the software on an HMC from a remote location using network upgrade images. Use the following procedure to upgrade HMC  at level V6R1.2 or higher, which includes all HMC V7 levels.  You cannot download these files directly to the HMC. You must download the image files to a server that accepts FTP requests.  initrd.gz bzImage disk1.img disk2.img disk3.img hmcnetworkfiles.sum  To save data on both DVD and HDD, execute the following commands: To save data on the HDD, execute the following command:  Example:  Where, is the host name or ip address of the FTP server where you have downloaded the HMC network images.  is a valid user id on the FTP server. If you do not specify the password with the --passwd argument, you will be prompted for a password.  is the directory on your FTP server where the HMC network images are saved. Parent topic:          
 Creating logical partitions on a new or nonpartitioned server Use these procedures to create logical partitions on your new or nonpartitioned server using the  (). When you receive your server, the server is in what is known as the manufacturing default configuration. You can install an operating system on the server and use the server in a nonpartitioned configuration. However, if you want to create logical partitions on the managed system, you must develop a logical partition plan for the server, add hardware to the server or move the hardware within the server according to your logical partition plan, and validate the hardware on the server. When the server is ready, you can then create the logical partitions using the .  The procedure used to create logical partitions on a new or nonpartitioned server varies by server type.  Use this procedure to create  logical partitions on a new or nonpartitioned managed system using the  (). In this procedure, you will validate the hardware on the managed system, create the logical partitions on the managed system, and designate the service logical partition for the managed system.  Use this procedure to create  logical partition on a new or nonpartitioned managed system by using the  (). In this procedure, you will validate the hardware on the managed system and create the logical partitions on the managed system.  Parent topic:          
 Creating  logical partitions on a new or nonpartitioned managed system Use this procedure to create  logical partitions on a new or nonpartitioned managed system using the  (). In this procedure, you will validate the hardware on the managed system, create the logical partitions on the managed system, and designate the service logical partition for the managed system.  Use this procedure in the following cases: You have just received your managed system and want to create logical partitions on the managed system immediately. You have used the managed system as a nonpartitioned server, and now want to create logical partitions on the managed system.  If you want to create a new logical partition on a managed system that has already been partitioned, then you do not need to perform all of the steps in this procedure. For instructions about creating a new logical partition on a managed system that has already been partitioned, see . Before you begin, complete the following tasks: Use the  () to ensure that your hardware configuration supports your desired logical partition configuration.  If necessary, install additional hardware resources on your managed system to support the logical partition plan specified by the . Set up the  to manage your logical partition and the managed system. For instructions, see . If you have used the managed system prior to creating logical partitions, back up all data on the managed system. To assign single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) logical ports to a logical partition during partition creation, verify whether the managed system supports the SR-IOV feature before you create the logical partition.   To create logical partitions on a new or nonpartitioned managed system from the , complete the following steps:    If the managed system does not display in the work pane, or if the managed system is in any state other than Standby or Operating, you must fix the problem before continuing.   When you connect a new or nonpartitioned managed system to an , a single logical partition is displayed in the  user interface. All system resources belong to this logical partition. In this procedure, you will use this logical partition to validate the hardware on the managed system. After you validate the hardware on the managed system, you will delete this logical partition and create the logical partitions according to your logical partition plan.  If the logical partition that is described in this step exists, continue to step . Otherwise, continue to step  to reset the managed system.    If the hardware placement in the managed system does not support the manufacturing default configuration, you must move the hardware so that the hardware placement supports the manufacturing default configuration. For more information on placing the hardware in your managed system to support the manufacturing default configuration, contact your marketing representative or business partner.  The Restricted shell command-line interface is displayed.  where managed_system_name is the name of managed system as it is displayed in the work pane.  This step takes several seconds to complete.  In the navigation pane of the , select the managed system if it is not already selected, and review the state of the logical partition on the managed system.  If the logical partition is in a Running state, shut down the logical partition by completing the following steps:  If the logical partition is in an Error state, complete the following:  For information about using reference codes, see .    Identify the  as the console device for system setup, regardless of the types of console device that you ultimately plan to use for the logical partitions on your system. The  provides the easiest, most reliable method to access a console session during system setup. When you create your logical partitions, you can specify the console of your choice for each logical partition. Also, when you select the load source device and alternate restart device, select the devices that will be used by the first  logical partition in your  plan. To identify the devices to use for system setup, complete the following:   When the Licensed Internal Code installation is complete, continue to step .    The Failed and non-reporting hardware resource option displays a list of the logical hardware resources that either failed or did not report to the system at the last IPL.  Incorrect use of the Failed and non-reporting hardware resource option can cause damage to data in your system.  If no failed resources or non-reporting resources exist, the informational message No failed or non-reporting logical hardware resources were found opens. If there are failed resources, contact your service provider.  You can verify only the adapters that are supported by . Any adapter that is not supported by  might have an error of unknown or failed hardware.         Incorrect use of the Failed and non-reporting hardware resource option can cause damage to data in your system.  If no failed or non-reporting hardware resources exist, the informational message No failed or non-reporting logical hardware resources were found opens. If there are failed resources, contact your service provider.  You can verify only the adapters that are supported by . Any adapter that is not supported by  might have an error of unknown or failed hardware.   This procedure erases the logical partition and the logical partition configuration data stored on the partition profiles. This procedure does not affect any of the data stored on the managed system.   If you plan to create logical partitions that use shared memory, you must first configure the shared memory pool. For instructions, see .   When you create an  logical partition, the default processor mode is the shared processor mode. You can specify a value of 0.05 in the  field when the firmware is at level 7.6, or later. You can also change this value after partition creation by changing the partition profile.  When you create an  logical partition on a server that uses the virtual server network (VSN), and the  is at version 7.7, or later, you can associate a Virtual Station Interface (VSI) profile with the virtual Ethernet.  The Create Logical Partition wizard provides an option to enable synchronization of the current configuration capability. If you want to enable this option, you can select  from the  list when creating the logical partition. When this value is set, the partition profile is always synchronized with the last activated partition profile. For more information about creating a partition with synchronization of the current configuration capability, see .  The Create Logical Partition wizard provides an option to create an SR-IOV logical port and assign the logical port to the profile. You can follow the steps in the wizard to create the SR-IOV logical port. You can also add an SR-IOV logical port to a partition after you create the partition. For more information about adding an SR-IOV logical port to a partition, see   Alternatively, you can create logical partitions by importing a system plan file into your  and deploying the system plan to the managed system. For instructions, see . However, if you want one or more logical partitions to use shared memory, you must configure shared memory resources for those logical partitions after you deploy the system plan. System plans that you create by using the SPT do not contain configuration information for shared memory.      The RMC application is displayed in  to signify that it has been selected.   After you have created the logical partitions on your managed system, complete the following tasks:Install operating systems and system software on the logical partitions.  For installation instructions for the , , and  operating systems, see . For installation instructions for the , see . Change the console device on each  logical partition to the console device of your choice. For procedures on how to change the console on  logical partitions, see . Connect the logical partitions on your managed system to the LAN adapter that you have just configured on the . You can create a virtual LAN to connect the logical partitions on your managed system with each other, bridge the virtual LAN to a physical Ethernet adapter on an external network, and connect the LAN adapter on the HMC to the same external network. Alternatively, you can configure a physical Ethernet adapter on each logical partition, connect the physical Ethernet adapters on the logical partitions to an external network, and connect the LAN adapter on the HMC to the same external network. For instructions, see .  Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Creating additional logical partitions You can use the Create Logical Partition wizard on the  () to create a new logical partition. When you create a logical partition, you also create a partition profile that contains the resource allocations and settings for the logical partition. Use this procedure only if you are creating logical partitions on a managed system that has already been partitioned. If you are creating logical partitions on a new or nonpartitioned managed system, you must test the hardware on your managed system to ensure that the hardware is in working order. Testing the hardware helps you detect potential problems with your managed system and makes such problems easier to correct. After you test the hardware, you can create logical partitions on a new or nonpartitioned managed system by deploying a system plan to the managed system.  You can also create logical partitions on a managed system by deploying a system plan to the managed system. A system plan automates the process of creating logical partitions and ensures that each logical partition gets the resources that are specified within the system plan. Before you create a logical partition, have the  () output available. Use the output from this tool as a guide as you start to create partition profiles on your server. If you plan to create logical partitions that use shared memory, you must first configure the shared memory pool. For instructions, see . If you want to assign single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) logical ports to a logical partition during partition creation, verify whether the managed system supports SR-IOV before you create the logical partition.  To create a logical partition and a partition profile on your server using the , follow these steps:   When you create a logical partition, the default processor mode is the shared processor mode. You can specify a value of 0.05 in the  field when the firmware is at level 7.6, or later. You can also change this value after partition creation by changing the partition profile.  When you create a logical partition on a server that uses the virtual server network (VSN), and the  is at version 7.7, or later, you can associate a Virtual Station Interface (VSI) profile with the virtual Ethernet.  The Create Logical Partition wizard provides an option to enable synchronization of the current configuration capability. If you want to enable this option, you can select  from the  list when creating the logical partition. When this value is set, the partition profile is always synchronized with the last activated partition profile. For more information about creating a partition with synchronization of the current configuration capability, see .  The Create Logical Partition wizard provides an option to create a single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) logical port and assign the logical port to the profile. You can follow the steps in the wizard to create the SR-IOV logical port. You can also add an SR-IOV logical port to a partition after you create partition. For more information about adding an SR-IOV logical port to a partition, see .  After creating your logical partition and partition profile, you must install an operating system.  For installation instructions for the , see . For installation instructions for the , see . Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Configuring the shared memory pool You can configure the size of the shared memory pool, assign paging space devices to the shared memory pool, and assign one or two  () logical partitions (that provide access to the paging space devices) to the shared memory pool using the  (). Before you start, complete the following tasks:Enter the activation code for the . For instructions, see . The ability to share memory among multiple logical partitions is known as the  technology. The  technology is available with the  for which you must obtain and enter a  activation code.  Ensure that your configuration meets the configuration requirements for shared memory. To review the requirements, see . Complete the required preparation tasks. For instructions, see . Create the  logical partitions (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partitions) that you plan to assign to the shared memory pool, and then install the . For instructions, see  and . Create and configure the paging space devices that are owned by the paging  partitions that you plan to assign to the shared memory pool.  Verify that the  is at version 7 release 3.4.2, or later. For instructions, see . Ensure that you are a super administrator or operator of the .  If there is not enough physical memory available in the system to allocate to the shared memory pool, you can release to the hypervisor the physical memory that is currently assigned to logical partitions that use dedicated memory and that are shutdown. The hypervisor can then assign the released physical memory to the shared memory pool. To configure the shared memory pool, complete the following steps using the :  The Shared Memory Pool wizard is displayed.   If you expect to see a particular device on the list of eligible devices to add to the shared memory pool, but the device does not appear, you can run the  command from the  command line. You can run the  command to determine why the device does not meet the requirements for paging space devices and to learn what tasks need to be performed on the device to satisfy the requirements. If a device was used by a logical partition and then the logical partition was removed, the device might not meet the requirements for a paging space device, even though the logical partition was removed. The  command detects this situation and provides instructions about how to change the device so that it meets the requirements for a paging space device. After you create the shared memory pool, you can create logical partitions that use shared memory. For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Entering the activation code for  by using  Version 7 Use these instructions to enter the  activation code using the  () Version 7, or later.  If  is not enabled on your system, you can use the  to enter the activation code that you received when you ordered the feature. Use the following procedure to enter the activation code for the .  To enter your activation code, follow these steps:  For example, this might be the system on which you plan to install the , or it might be the system in which you plan to use the  technology.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to enter the  activation code. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Installing the  Find instructions for installing the  by deploying a system plan or manually creating the logical partition and logical partition profiles and installing the  (). These instructions apply to installing the  on a system that is managed by a  (). If you plan to install the  on a system that is not managed by an , then you need to install the .  The installation procedures vary depending on the following factors: The version of  attached to the managed system on which you plan to install the .  Version 7 displays a different interface than prior versions of the .  Version 7 also provides the ability to deploy a system plan that includes the . Whether you plan to deploy a system plan that includes the  and client logical partitions. When you deploy a system plan, the  automatically performs the following tasks based on the information provided in the system plan:Creates the  logical partition and logical partition profile. Installs the  and provisions virtual resources. Creates the client logical partitions and logical partition profiles. Installs the  operating systems on client logical partitions. The  must be at V7R3.3.0, or later.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to install the . You can create the  logical partition and logical partition profile, and you can install the  () by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.1, or later. When you reinstall the  (VIOS) that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition), you need to reconfigure the shared memory environment. For example, you might need to add the paging space devices again to the shared memory pool. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Reinstalling the  of a paging VIOS partition When you reinstall the  (VIOS) that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition), you need to reconfigure the shared memory environment. For example, you might need to add the paging space devices again to the shared memory pool. The paging VIOS partitions store information about the paging space devices that are assigned to a shared memory pool. The  () obtains information about the paging space devices that are assigned to the shared memory pool from the paging VIOS partitions. When you reinstall the VIOS, the information about the paging space devices is lost. For the paging VIOS partitions to regain the information, you must assign the paging space devices again to the share memory pool after you reinstall the VIOS. The following table shows the reconfiguration tasks that you must perform in the shared memory environment when you resinstall the  of a paging VIOS partition. Number of paging VIOS partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool Number of paging VIOS partitions for which you want to reinstall the VIOS Reconfiguration steps Instructions 1 1 Shut down all logical partitions that use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions). Reinstall the VIOS. Add the paging space devices again to the shared memory pool. 2 1 Shut down each shared memory partition that uses the paging VIOS partition (that you plan to reinstall) as the primary or secondary paging VIOS partition. Remove the paging VIOS partition from the shared memory pool. Reinstall the VIOS. Add the paging VIOS partition again to the shared memory pool. 2 2 Shut down all the shared memory partitions. Reinstall the VIOS of each paging VIOS partition. Add the paging space devices again to the shared memory pool. Parent topic:          
 Shutting down and restarting logical partitions You can shut down and restart logical partitions running on systems that are managed by a  (). You can shut down and restart  in a logical partition using the  (). The correct way to shut down an  logical partition safely is from an  command line. You can shut down and restart  logical partitions or the  operating system by using the  ().  You can shut down and restart  using the  (). Parent topic:          
 Shutting down and restarting  in a logical partition You can shut down and restart  in a logical partition using the  (). You can shut down  logical partitions using the  (). You can restart  logical partitions using the  (). Restarting a logical partition shuts the logical partition down and then starts it again.  Parent topic:          
 Shutting down  logical partitions You can shut down  logical partitions using the  (). To shut down an  logical partition, complete the following steps from the :   Option Description Operating System The  issues the   command to shut down the logical partition.  Operating System Immediate The  issues the   command to shut down the logical partition as quickly as possible, bypassing messages to other users.  Delayed Immediate Parent topic:          
 Restarting  logical partitions You can restart  logical partitions using the  (). Restarting a logical partition shuts the logical partition down and then starts it again.  To restart an  logical partition, complete the following steps from the :   Option Description Operating System The  issues the   command to shut down and restart the logical partition.  Operating System Immediate The  issues the   command to shut down and restart the  logical partition as quickly as possible, bypassing messages to other users.  Immediate Dump Parent topic:          
 Shutting down  logical partitions The correct way to shut down an  logical partition safely is from an  command line. If you cannot shut down the  logical partition from an  command line, you can shut down the  logical partition from the Shut Down Partition window on your HMC or from the remote control panel on the Operations Console. Using these methods can cause an abnormal shutdown and can result in loss of data.  Before you shut down an  logical partition, you must perform all of the basic  shutdown tasks. For example, all other users must be signed off of the  logical partition before you can shut it down. If you shut down the  logical partition without completing all of the required tasks, you can cause damage to data or cause the system to behave in unpredictable ways. For instructions, see . You can shut down  logical partitions using the  ().  You can shut down  logical partitions using Operations Console.  At times you will need to perform an initial program load (IPL) or shut down an  logical partition. For example, if you want to apply a delayed fix to , you must perform an IPL before  can apply the fix.  Parent topic:          
 Shutting down  logical partitions using the  You can shut down  logical partitions using the  ().  Before you shut down the  logical partition, complete the following tasks:If an integrated server is active on the system, shut down the integrated server using  options. Ensure that all jobs are completed and all applications are ended. Ensure that your partition profiles are updated with any dynamic partitioning resource changes that you want to keep when you restart the logical partition.  The correct way to shut down an  logical partition from the  is to open an  5250 emulator session and run the Power® Down System (PWRDWNSYS) command.  To shut down an  logical partition from the , follow these steps:  The system will only shut down the  logical partition you selected. The PWRDWNSYS command does not affect other  logical partitions on your system. If you enter the PWRDWNSYS command with the RESTART(*YES) option, the operating system restarts, and the resource specifications of the logical partition remain the same. If you do not use the RESTART(*YES) option, then the logical partition shuts down completely, and other logical partitions will be able to take and use the resources that were used by the logical partition. Also, when you reactivate the logical partition using a partition profile, the partition profile overlays the resource specifications of the logical partition with the resource specifications in the partition profile. Any resource changes that you made to the logical partition using dynamic partitioning are lost when you reactivate the logical partition using a partition profile. If the logical partition is set to start automatically when the managed system starts, you can preserve the resource specifications on that logical partition by restarting the entire managed system using the Partition autostart power-on mode. When the logical partitions start automatically, the logical partitions have the resource specifications that the logical partitions had when you shut down the managed system.   Using these methods can cause an abnormal shutdown and can result in loss of data. You can perform a delayed shutdown of a logical partition using the  (). Using delayed shutdown is equivalent to using the power button on the remote control panel. Use delayed shutdown only when you must shut down a logical partition, and the PWRDWNSYS command does not work. When you perform the immediate shutdown option by using the  (), the system shuts down without any preset delay. Using immediate shutdown is equivalent to using function 8 on the remote control panel. Parent topic:          
 Performing a delayed shutdown of an  logical partition You can perform a delayed shutdown of a logical partition using the  (). Using delayed shutdown is equivalent to using the power button on the remote control panel. Use delayed shutdown only when you must shut down a logical partition, and the PWRDWNSYS command does not work. When you use the delayed shutdown option, the logical partition waits a predetermined amount of time to shut down. This allows the logical partition time to end jobs and write data to disks. If the logical partition is unable to shut down within the predetermined amount of time, it will end abnormally and the next restart might take a long time.  To perform a delayed shutdown of an  logical partition using the , complete the following: Parent topic:          
 Performing an immediate shutdown of an  logical partition When you perform the immediate shutdown option by using the  (), the system shuts down without any preset delay. Using immediate shutdown is equivalent to using function 8 on the remote control panel.  Using immediate shutdown can cause an abnormal IPL of the  logical partition and possibly cause loss of data. Use immediate shutdown only when an  logical partition cannot shut down using PWRDWNSYS or delayed shutdown.  To perform an immediate shutdown of an  logical partition using the , complete the following: Parent topic:          
  Shutting down  logical partitions using Operations Console You can shut down  logical partitions using Operations Console.  Before you shut down the  logical partition, complete the following: If an integrated server is active on the system, shut down the integrated server using  options. Ensure that all jobs are completed and all applications are ended. Ensure that your partition profiles are updated with any dynamic partitioning resource changes that you want to keep when you restart the logical partition.  The correct way to shut down a logical partition is by using the control language (CL) command Power® Down System (PWRDWNSYS).  From an  command line, type PWRDWNSYS OPTION (*CNTRLD) DELAY (600) and press Enter. The system will only shut down the  logical partition you selected. The PWRDWNSYS command does not affect other  logical partitions on your system.  If you enter the PWRDWNSYS command with the RESTART(*YES) option, the operating system restarts, and the resource specifications of the logical partition remain the same. If you do not use the RESTART(*YES) option, then the logical partition shuts down completely, and other logical partitions will be able to take and use the resources that were used by the logical partition. Also, when you reactivate the logical partition using a partition profile, the partition profile overlays the resource specifications of the logical partition with the resource specifications in the partition profile. Any resource changes that you made to the logical partition using dynamic partitioning are lost when you reactivate the logical partition using a partition profile. If the logical partition is set to start automatically when the managed system starts, you can preserve the resource specifications on that logical partition by restarting the entire managed system using the Partition autostart power-on mode. When the logical partitions start automatically, the logical partitions have the resource specifications that the logical partitions had when you shut down the managed system. If the PWRDWNSYS command does not work, you can use the remote control panel through Operations Console to use control panel functions through a PC. The graphical user interface of the remote control panel looks similar to the physical control panel. The remote control panel installs through Operations Console. Using the remote control panel to shut down the  logical partition can result in an abnormal IPL and loss of data.  Delayed shutdownUse delayed shutdown only when you must shut down a logical partition, and when the PWRDWNSYS command does not work.    When you use the delayed shutdown option, the logical partition waits a predetermined amount of time to shut down. This allows the logical partition time to end jobs and write data to disks. If the logical partition is unable to shut down within the predetermined amount of time, it will end abnormally and the next restart might take a long time.  Immediate shutdownUse immediate shutdown only when an  logical partition cannot shut down using PWRDWNSYS or delayed shutdown.    When you use the immediate shutdown option, the system turns off without any preset delay.   This might cause an abnormal IPL of the  logical partition and possibly cause loss of data.    Use the remote control panel to perform a delayed shutdown or an immediate shutdown. The power button will start a delayed shutdown and function 8 will start an immediate shutdown of a system.  Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Restarting and shutting down  in a logical partition At times you will need to perform an initial program load (IPL) or shut down an  logical partition. For example, if you want to apply a delayed fix to , you must perform an IPL before  can apply the fix.  The preferred method for restarting and shutting down  logical partitions is through the  command line. The  () does not shut down the  operating system before it shuts down the logical partition. Using the  to restart or shut down an  logical partition can result in an abnormal IPL and the loss of data. However, you might need to use the  to change the operating mode or IPL type of the  logical partition before you restart or shut down the  logical partition using the  command line. It is important to remember that, when you perform an IPL of an  logical partition, you are powering off only the logical partition and not the entire managed system. Other logical partitions on your managed system continue to run when you perform an IPL on the  logical partition. However, when you shut down the last logical partition that is running on a managed system, then the managed system is set to power off automatically by default. If you want, you can set the managed system properties on the  so that the managed system remains powered on when you shut down the last running logical partition. You can change the operating mode for an  logical partition using the  (). The operating mode for an  logical partition determines the number of options that are presented to the operator for consideration during and after the initial program load (IPL). It can also secure (lock) the control panel to prevent an unauthorized or inadvertent IPL from the control panel. When you use the  () to change the IPL type, the managed system loads the Licensed Internal Code and  from the location specified by the IPL type. The IPL type is also known as the IPL source, because each IPL type is associated with a different IPL source. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Changing the operating mode for an  logical partition You can change the operating mode for an  logical partition using the  (). The operating mode for an  logical partition determines the number of options that are presented to the operator for consideration during and after the initial program load (IPL). It can also secure (lock) the control panel to prevent an unauthorized or inadvertent IPL from the control panel.  To change the  operating mode of a logical partition using the , follow these steps: Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Changing the IPL type for an  logical partition When you use the  () to change the IPL type, the managed system loads the Licensed Internal Code and  from the location specified by the IPL type. The IPL type is also known as the IPL source, because each IPL type is associated with a different IPL source. You can choose a separate IPL type for each  logical partition.  Only use IPL type C under the direction of your service representative. Severe data loss can occur with incorrect use of this function.  To change the  IPL type of a logical partition using the , follow these steps: Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Shutting down and restarting  in a logical partition You can shut down and restart  logical partitions or the  operating system by using the  ().  You can shut down  logical partitions and the  operating system using the  ().  You can restart  logical partitions or the  operating system using the  (). Restarting a logical partition shuts the logical partition down and then starts it again.  Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Shutting down  logical partitions You can shut down  logical partitions and the  operating system using the  ().  To shut down a  logical partition, complete the following steps from the :   Option Description Operating System The  issues the   command to shut down the logical partition.  Operating System Immediate The  issues the   command to shut down the logical partition as quickly as possible, bypassing messages to other users.  Delayed Immediate Parent topic:          
 Restarting  logical partitions You can restart  logical partitions or the  operating system using the  (). Restarting a logical partition shuts the logical partition down and then starts it again.  To restart a  logical partition, complete the following steps from the :   Option Description Operating System The  issues the   command to shut down and restart the logical partition.  Operating System Immediate The  issues the   command to shut down and restart the logical partition as quickly as possible, bypassing messages to other users. Immediate Dump The  allows the  operating system on the  logical partition to run a diagnostic procedure. After the diagnostic procedure is complete, the logical partition restarts. The exact diagnostic procedure depends upon which  operating system is installed on the logical partition and how the operating system is set to do. The operating system might run an OS debugger, the operating system might perform a main storage or system memory dump on the logical partition, or the operating system might not be set to run any diagnostic procedure at all.  Parent topic:          
 Shutting down and restarting  in a logical partition You can shut down and restart  using the  (). You can shut down  logical partitions using the  (). You can shut down the  immediately or delay the shutdown. You can restart  logical partitions using the  (). Restarting a  logical partition shuts down the  logical partition and then starts it again.  Parent topic:          
 Shutting down  logical partitions using the  You can shut down  logical partitions using the  (). You can shut down the  immediately or delay the shutdown. Before you shut down the  logical partition, complete the following tasks:If the client logical partitions that use storage and networking virtual resources provided by the  are not configured to use virtual resources provided by a redundant , then shut down the client logical partitions. Shut down each shared memory partition that accesses its paging space device using only the  logical partition that you plan to shut down. If you shut down the  (VIOS) logical partition (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) before you shut down the shared memory partitions and a shared memory partition attempts to access memory that is located on its paging space device, the shared memory partition might fail. If a shared memory partition accesses its paging space device redundantly through two paging VIOS partitions, you do not need to shut down the shared memory partition. When you shut down the paging VIOS partition, the shared memory partition accesses its paging space device through the other paging VIOS partition. To shut down a  logical partition, complete the following steps from the :   Option Description Operating System The  issues the   command to shut down the logical partition.  Operating System Immediate The  issues the   command to shut down the logical partition as quickly as possible, bypassing messages to other users.  Delayed Immediate Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:         
 Restarting  logical partitions using the  You can restart  logical partitions using the  (). Restarting a  logical partition shuts down the  logical partition and then starts it again.  Before you shut down the  logical partition, complete the following tasks:If the client logical partitions that use storage and networking virtual resources provided by the  are not configured to use virtual resources provided by a redundant , then shut down the client logical partitions. Shut down each shared memory partition that accesses its paging space device using only the  logical partition that you plan to shut down. If you shut down the  (VIOS) logical partition (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) before you shut down the shared memory partitions and a shared memory partition attempts to access memory that is located on its paging space device, the shared memory partition might fail. If a shared memory partition accesses its paging space device redundantly through two paging VIOS partitions, you do not need to shut down the shared memory partition. When you shut down the paging VIOS partition, the shared memory partition accesses its paging space device through the other paging VIOS partition. To restart a  logical partition, complete the following steps from the :   Option Description Operating System The  issues the   command to shut down and restart the logical partition.  Operating System Immediate The  issues the   command to shut down and restart the logical partition as quickly as possible, bypassing messages to other users.  Immediate Dump After the  restarts, complete the following tasks:Activate the client logical partitions that use storage and networking virtual resources provided to them by the . Activate each shared memory partition that accesses its paging space device by using only the paging VIOS partition that you restarted. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:         
 Installing the  manually by using  Version 7 Release 7.1, and later You can create the  logical partition and logical partition profile, and you can install the  () by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.1, or later. Before you start, ensure that you meet the following requirements:The system on which you plan to install the  is managed by a  (). The  is at Version 7 Release 7.1, or later.  Use these instructions to enter the  activation code using the  () Version 7, or later. You can use the  () Version 7, release 7.1, or later to create a logical partition and partition profile for the  ().  Find instructions for installing the  () from a CD device, DVD device, saved image, or Network Installation Management (NIM) server by using the  () graphical user interface. Find instructions for installing the  () from the  command line by using the  command. After you install , you must check for updates, set up remote connects, create additional user IDs, and so on.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to install the  manually. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Creating the Virtual I/O Server logical partition on an HMC managed system You can use the  () Version 7, release 7.1, or later to create a logical partition and partition profile for the  ().  You can use the  () Version 7, release 7.1, or later to create the  partition and profile manually. Or, you can deploy a system plan to create the  () partition and profile. When you deploy a system plan you can optionally create client logical partitions and their profiles on the managed system as well. You can use the  () Version 7, release 7.1, or later to create a logical partition and partition profile for the  (). You use the  () Version 7, release 7.1, or later, to deploy a system plan on a  managed system to create a logical partition and profile for the  (). You also can use the system plan to optionally create client logical partitions and their profiles on the managed system.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to create a logical partition and partition profile for the . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Creating the  logical partition and partition profile manually by using the HMC  You can use the  () Version 7, release 7.1, or later to create a logical partition and partition profile for the  (). Before you start, ensure that you meet the following requirements:You are a super administrator or an operator. The  is activated. For instructions, see .  The  requires a minimum of 30 GB of disk space. To create a logical partition and a partition profile on your server by using the , follow these steps:    The required minimum value is 512 MB.  ( is sometimes referred to as Integrated Virtual Ethernet.)   After you create the partition and partition profile, you are ready to install the . For instructions, see one of the following procedures:  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to create the  partition and profile. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Installing the  from the  command line Find instructions for installing the  () from the  command line by using the  command. Before you start, complete the following tasks:Ensure that you meet the following requirements:There is an  attached to the managed system. The  logical partition and logical partition profile are created. For instructions, see . If you are installing  Version 2.2.1.0, or later, ensure that the  is at Version 7 Release 7.4.0, or later.  The  logical partition has at least one Ethernet adapter and a 16 GB disk assigned to it. You have  authority. Gather the following information:Static IP address for the  Subnet mask for the  Default gateway for the   To install the , follow these steps:  export INSTALLIOS_PRIVATE_IF=interface where interface is the network interface through which the installation should take place.  installios After you install the , finish the installation by checking for updates, setting up remote connections, creating additional user IDs, and so on. For instructions, see . As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to install the . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Installing the  by using the  Version 7 Release 7.1, or later Find instructions for installing the  from a CD or DVD device that is attached to the  () logical partition by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.1.0, or later.  Before you start, ensure that you meet the following requirements:An  is attached to the managed system. The  logical partition and logical partition profile are created. For instructions, see . Ensure that the  is at Version 7 Release 7.1.0, or later. A CD or DVD optical device is assigned to the  logical partition.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to install the  from a CD or DVD device. To install the  from CD or DVD, complete the following steps from the  graphical interface:  Activate the  by using the  Version 7 or later:Insert the  CD  into the  logical partition. In the  navigation area, expand . Select the server on which the  logical partition is located. In the contents area, select the  logical partition. Click . The Activate Partition menu opens with a selection of logical partition profiles. Ensure that the correct profile is highlighted. Select  to open a virtual terminal (vterm) window. Click  to open the  menu. For the boot mode, select . Click  to close the  menu. Click . A virtual terminal window opens for the logical partition. Activate the  by using the  Version 6 or earlier:Insert the  CD  into the  logical partition. On the , right-click the logical partition to open the menu. Click . The Activate Partition menu opens with a selection of logical partition profiles. Ensure that the correct profile is highlighted. Select  to open a virtual terminal (vterm) window. Click  to open the  menu. For the boot mode, select . Click  to close the  menu. Click . A virtual terminal window opens for the logical partition.     After you install the , finish the installation by checking for updates, setting up remote connections, and creating additional user IDs. For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Installing the  by using the  graphical user interface Find instructions for installing the  () from a CD device, DVD device, saved image, or Network Installation Management (NIM) server by using the  () graphical user interface. Find instructions for installing the  () from a DVD device, a saved image, or a Network Installation Management (NIM) server by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.7.0, or later. Find instructions for installing the  from a CD or DVD device that is attached to the  () logical partition by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.1.0, or later.  Parent topic:          
 Installing the  by using the  Version 7 Release 7.7, or later Find instructions for installing the  () from a DVD device, a saved image, or a Network Installation Management (NIM) server by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.7.0, or later. Before you start, complete the following tasks:Ensure that you meet the following requirements:An  is attached to the managed system. The  logical partition and logical partition profile are created. Ensure that the  is at Version 7 Release 7.7.0, or later.  Obtain the following information for the :IP address for the  Subnet mask for the  Default gateway for the  To install the , complete the following steps from the  graphical interface:  To install the  by using a DVD device, complete the following steps:Click . Enter the details in the , , and  fields. Click . To install the  by using a saved image, complete the following steps:Click . Enter the details in the , , , and  fields. Click . To install the  by using a Network Installation Management (NIM) server, complete the following steps:Click . Enter the details in the , , , and  fields. Click . After you install the , finish the installation by checking for updates, setting up remote connections, and creating additional user IDs. For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Managing the Virtual I/O Server image repository As of Version 7.7, or later, you can store the Virtual I/O Server (VIOS) images from a DVD, a saved image, or a Network Installation Management (NIM) server on the HMC. The stored VIOS images can be used for VIOS installation. You must be an HMC super administrator (hmcsuperadmin) to install the VIOS image. To manage or to import the VIOS image repository, complete the following steps:  To import the VIOS images from a DVD to the HMC, complete the following steps:In the Import Virtual I/O Server Image window, select . In the  field, enter the VIOS image name that you want to import from the DVD. Click . To import the VIOS images from a Network File System (NFS), File Transfer Protocol (FTP), or Secure Shell File Transfer Protocol (SFTP), complete the following steps:In the Import Virtual I/O Server Image window, select . Select , , or . Enter the required details and click . Parent topic:          
 Creating the  logical partition by using the HMC to deploy a system plan You use the  () Version 7, release 7.1, or later, to deploy a system plan on a  managed system to create a logical partition and profile for the  (). You also can use the system plan to optionally create client logical partitions and their profiles on the managed system. Before you start, ensure that you meet the following requirements:The system to which you plan to deploy the system plan is managed by a  () at Version 7, release 7.1, or later. The system plan can only create the  management partition and profile and client logical partitions and profiles.  After you use the system plan to create your management and client logical partitions and their associated partition profiles, you are ready to install the . For instructions, see one of the following procedures:  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to deploy a system plan on a  managed system to create a logical partition and profile for the . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Deploying a system plan by using the HMC You can use the  () to deploy all or part of a system plan to a managed system. When you deploy a system plan, the  creates logical partitions on the managed system according to the specifications in the system plan.  You do not have to deploy a system plan in its entirety. Instead, you can partially deploy a system plan on the target system by selecting the logical partitions in the plan to deploy. You can run the Deploy System Plan Wizard again at another time to deploy the remainder of the logical partitions in the system plan.   Version 7 Release 7.1, and later, does not support  () provisioning and operating environment installation for  processor-based servers when you deploy a system plan. Before you deploy a system plan, complete the following tasks: Ensure that the system-plan file exists on the . If the system-plan file does not exist on the , you must import the system-plan file into the . For instructions, see . Ensure that you meet all the appropriate requirements for deploying the system plan. See    To deploy a system plan on a managed system by using the , complete the following steps:  The Deploy System Plan Wizard starts.  If the system plan does not match the managed system to which you want to deploy the plan, the wizard displays a window with this information. Click  to continue, or  to select a different system plan. If the system-plan file contains multiple system plans, the wizard provides a step so that you can select a specific system plan from the file. The wizard does not provide this step unless there is more than one system plan in the specified file.   The validation process can take several minutes.   To help you correct any validation problems, you might want to create a system plan that is based on the current configuration of the managed system. By using such a system plan, you can compare the system plan that you want to deploy with the current configuration of the managed system. You can do this by using the Create System Plan task in the , or by running the following command from the  command line:  -m name_of_managed_system -f name_of_new_system_plan.sysplan  This action creates a system plan that you can view and compare to the old system plan to help diagnose any problems.  Optional:  Virtual serial adapters are required in virtual slots 0 and 1 for each logical partition. You cannot create the logical partition unless you create these virtual serial adapters.  The  uses the system plan to create the specified logical partitions. This process can take several minutes.  To use the  () to deploy a system plan successfully, you must ensure that your system meets the prerequisite conditions. You deploy a system plan to a system that is managed by a  () managed system by using the System Plan Deployment Wizard. The wizard validates the information in the system plan against the configuration of the managed system before beginning the deployment process. Use the following information to help resolve problems that you might encounter when deploying a system plan with the  () Version 7.3.3, and later. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:    |      
 Creating a system plan by using the HMC  You can use the  () to create a system plan, based on an existing system configuration, and then deploy that system plan to other managed systems. When you create a system plan on the , you can deploy the resulting system plan to create identical logical partition configurations on managed systems with identical hardware. The system plan contains specifications for the logical partitions and partition profiles of the managed system that you used as the basis of creating the system plan.  The new system plan also can contain hardware information that the  is able to obtain from the selected managed system. However, the amount of hardware information that the  can capture for the new system plan varies based on the method that the  uses to gather the hardware information.   When you use the  V7R7.1.0, or later, on  processor-based servers, system plans that are created by using the  do not include  () provisioning information. The  can potentially use two methods: inventory gathering and hardware discovery. For example, when using hardware discovery, the  can detect information about hardware that is unassigned to a partition or that is assigned to an inactive partition.   Ensure that you meet the requirements for using either or both of the inventory gathering and hardware discovery methods before you create your system plan. See  for more information. To create a system plan by using the , complete the following steps:  The System Plans page opens.  The Create System Plan window opens. Optional:  This option appears only if the managed system is capable of hardware discovery, and the option is selected by default.  If you do not select the  option, the  does not perform a new hardware discovery, but instead uses the data in the inventory cache on the system. The  still performs inventory gathering and retrieves hardware information for any active logical partitions on the managed server. The resulting new system plan contains hardware information from the inventory-gathering process and hardware information from the hardware inventory cache on the system.  Optional:  Now that you have a new system plan, you can export the system plan, import it onto another managed system, and deploy the system plan to that managed system.  To use the  () to create a system plan successfully, you need to ensure that your system meets a number of prerequisite conditions. The quantity and quality of hardware information that the  can capture in a new system plan varies based on your version of the  and the operating environment of the logical partition for which you are capturing information. Use this information to help resolve problems that you might encounter when creating a system plan with the  () Version 7 Release 3.3, and later. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:    |      
 Adding and removing paging space devices to and from the shared memory pool After you create the shared memory pool, you can add and remove paging space devices to and from the shared memory pool by using the  (). Before you add a paging space device, complete the following tasks: Configure the paging space device to the  () logical partitions (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partitions) that are assigned to the shared memory pool.  Verify that all paging VIOS partitions are running. Before you remove a paging space device, complete the following tasks: If no logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) is using the paging space device, verify that the paging space device is inactive. If a shared memory partition is using the paging space device, verify that the shared memory partition is shut down. Verify that all paging VIOS partitions are running. You must be a super administrator or operator of the  to add and remove paging space devices to and from the shared memory pool. To add and remove paging space devices, complete the following steps from the :  The Shared Memory Pool wizard is displayed.   Paging space devices can only be assigned to one shared memory pool at a time. You cannot assign the same paging space device to a shared memory pool on one system and to another shared memory pool on another system at the same time.   If you expect to see a particular device on the list of eligible devices to add to the shared memory pool, but the device does not appear, you can run the  command from the  command line. You can run the  command to determine why the device does not meet the requirements for paging space devices and to learn what tasks need to be performed on the device to satisfy the requirements. If a device was used by a logical partition and then the logical partition was removed, the device might not meet the requirements for a paging space device, even though the logical partition was removed. The  command detects this situation and provides instructions about how to change the device so that it meets the requirements for a paging space device. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 prepdev command Purpose Prepares a device to be assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition).   Syntax prepdev { -dev devicename }   Description The prepdev command prepares a device to be assigned to a shared memory pool (to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition). This command determines whether the device specified by the -dev flag is already assigned or used in the following manner:Assigned to a shared memory pool (being used as a paging device) Used as a backup device for virtual SCSI Used by a file system, logical volume, or volume group. If the device is already being used or assigned to a shared memory pool, you receive system output that tells you how to prepare the device to be used as a paging space device.   Flags Flag name Description -dev devicename Specifies the logical device to be used as a paging space device.  --help Displays the help text for this command and exit.    Exit Status See .   Example To verify that hdisk5 is ready to be used as a paging space device by a shared memory partition, type the following command: prepdev  -dev hdisk5   Related Information The  command and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Managing the shared memory pool By using the  (), you can change the configuration of the shared memory pool. For example, you can change the amount of physical memory assigned to the shared memory pool, change the  logical partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool, and add or remove paging space devices to or from the shared memory pool.  You can increase or decrease the amount of physical memory assigned to the shared memory pool by using the  (). You can use the  () to assign a second  () logical partition (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) to the shared memory pool. You can use the  () to change the  () logical partitions  that are assigned to the shared memory pool. You can use the  () to remove a  (VIOS) logical partition (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) from the shared memory pool. When you reinstall the  (VIOS) that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition), you need to reconfigure the shared memory environment. For example, you might need to add the paging space devices again to the shared memory pool. After you create the shared memory pool, you can add and remove paging space devices to and from the shared memory pool by using the  (). If you no longer want any of the logical partitions to use shared memory, you can delete the shared memory pool by using the  (). Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Changing the size of the shared memory pool You can increase or decrease the amount of physical memory assigned to the shared memory pool by using the  (). You must be a super administrator of operator of the  to change the size of the shared memory pool. If there is not enough physical memory available in the system by which to increase the amount of memory assigned to the shared memory pool, you can release to the hypervisor the physical memory that is currently assigned to dedicated memory partitions that are shut down. The hypervisor can then assign the released physical memory to the shared memory pool. If the shared memory pool has insufficient physical memory by which to decrease the amount of memory in the shared memory pool, you can release to the hypervisor the I/O entitled memory that is currently assigned to shared memory partitions that are shut down. The hypervisor can then remove the released physical memory from the shared memory pool. To change the size of the shared memory pool, complete the following steps:  You can enter the size in a combination of gigabytes (GB) plus megabytes (MB). If you need to assign more memory to the shared memory pool than the current maximum pool size, you can also enter a new value for the maximum pool size. If there is not enough physical memory available in the system by which to increase the maximum pool size, the Release Memory Resources window is displayed. Select dedicated memory partitions that are shut down until the available memory is equal to or greater than the requested memory and click . If the amount of memory by which you want to decrease the size of the shared memory pool is greater than the amount of available physical memory in the shared memory pool, the Release Memory Resources window is displayed.  (For example, the amount of available physical memory in the shared memory pool is 8 GB and you want to decrease the size of the shared memory pool from 32 GB to 20 GB, a difference of 12 GB, which is greater than 8 GB.) Select shared memory partitions that are shut down until the amount of memory by which you want to decrease the size of the shared memory pool is equal to or less than the available physical memory in the shared memory pool, and click .  Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Determining the size of the shared memory pool You need to consider the degree to which you want to overcommit the physical memory in the shared memory pool, the performance of the workloads when running in a shared memory configuration that is overcommitted, and the minimum and maximum boundaries of the shared memory pool. To determine the size of the shared memory pool, consider the following factors:     In general, more workloads perform better in logically overcommitted configurations than physically overcommitted configurations. Consider limiting the degree to which you physically overcommit the shared memory pool.   After you activate the shared memory partitions, you can view statistics about how the operating systems use their I/O entitled memory and adjust the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partitions accordingly.  To ensure that you can successfully activate the shared memory partitions, assign at least the following amount of physical memory to the shared memory pool: (the sum of the minimum logical memory that is assigned to all of the shared memory partitions that you plan to run concurrently) + (the required 256 MB of reserved firmware memory). Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Preparing to configure shared memory on a system that is managed by an  Before you configure the shared memory pool and create logical partitions that use shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions), you need to determine the size of the shared memory pool, the amount of memory to assign to each shared memory partition, the number of paging space devices to assign to the shared memory pool that you assign to the shared memory pool. Before you start, verify that your system meets the requirements for configuring shared memory. For instructions, see . To prepare to configure the shared memory pool and shared memory partitions, complete the following steps:    You can apply the same general guidelines that you might use to assign the desired, minimum, and maximum dedicated memory to logical partitions that use dedicated memory. For example: Do not assign the maximum logical memory to a value that is higher than the amount of logical memory that you plan to dynamically add to the shared memory partition. Set the minimum logical memory to a value that is high enough for the shared memory partition to successfully activate.  For instructions, see .   The  assigns one paging space device to each shared memory partition that is active. Thus, the fewest number of paging space devices that must be assigned to the shared memory pool is equal to the number of shared memory partitions that you plan to run simultaneously. For example, you assign ten shared memory partitions to the shared memory pool and you plan to run eight of the shared memory partitions simultaneously. Thus, you assign at least eight paging space devices to the shared memory pool.  For  shared memory partitions, the paging space device must be at least the size of the maximum logical memory size of the shared memory partition that you identified in step 1b.  For  shared memory partitions, the paging space device must be the size of the maximum logical memory size of the shared memory partition that you identified in step 1b multiplied by 129/128. For example, you plan to create an  shared memory partition with a maximum logical memory size of 16 GB. The paging space device must be at least 16.125 GB. Consider creating paging space devices that are large enough to be used by shared memory partitions with multiple partition profiles.  Paging space devices that are accessed by a single  (VIOS) logical partition (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) can be located in physical storage on the server or on a SAN. Paging space devices that are redundantly accessed by two paging VIOS partitions must be located on a SAN.   A paging VIOS partition provides access to the paging space devices for the shared memory partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool. A paging VIOS partition can be any active  (version 2.1.1, or later) that has access to the paging space devices that you plan to assign to the shared memory pool.   You can assign one or two paging VIOS partitions to the shared memory pool: When you assign a single paging VIOS partition to the shared memory pool, it must have access to all of the paging space devices that you plan to assign to the shared memory pool.  When you assign two paging VIOS partitions to the shared memory pool, each paging space device that you plan to assign to the shared memory pool must be accessible to at least one paging VIOS partition. However, usually when you assign two paging VIOS partitions to the shared memory pool, they redundantly access one or more paging space devices.  Determine which shared memory partitions to configure to use redundant paging VIOS partitions. For each shared memory partition, this means that both paging VIOS partitions can access the shared memory partition's paging space device. Determine which paging VIOS partition to assign as the primary paging VIOS partition and which paging VIOS partition to assign as the secondary paging VIOS partition for each shared memory partition. The hypervisor uses the primary paging VIOS partition to access the paging space device that is assigned to the shared memory partition. If the primary VIOS partition becomes unavailable, the hypervisor uses the secondary paging VIOS partition to access the paging space device that is assigned to the shared memory partition.   To read and write data between the paging space devices and the shared memory pool, the paging VIOS partitions require additional processing resources. The amount of additional processing resources that are needed depends on the frequency that the paging VIOS partition reads and writes the data. The more frequently that the paging VIOS partition reads and writes the data, the more frequently the paging VIOS partition performs I/O operations. More I/O operations require more processing power. In general, the frequency that the paging VIOS partition reads and writes data can be affected by the following factors:The degree to which the shared memory partitions are overcommitted. In general, greatly overcommitted shared memory partitions require the paging VIOS partition to read and write data more often than slightly overcommitted shared memory partitions.  The I/O rates of the storage subsystem on which the paging space devices are located. In general, paging space devices with faster I/O rates (such as a SAN) enable the paging VIOS partition to read and write data more often than paging space devices with slower I/O rates (such as storage in the server). You can use the  (WLE) to determine the number of processor resources that are needed for paging VIOS partitions. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Adding a paging VIOS partition to the shared memory pool You can use the  () to assign a second  () logical partition (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition) to the shared memory pool. Before you assign a paging  partition to the shared memory pool, complete the following steps:Verify that only one paging  partition is currently assigned to the shared memory pool. Verify that the paging  partition that is currently assigned to the shared memory pool is running. Verify that the  logical partition that you plan to assign to the shared memory pool is running. Verify that you are a super administrator or an operator of the . When you assign a paging VIOS partition to the shared memory pool and both paging VIOS partitions have access to the same paging space devices, those paging space devices become common. To assign a paging VIOS partition to the shared memory pool, complete the following steps from the :  The Shared Memory Pool wizard is displayed. After you assign a second paging VIOS partition to the shared memory pool, complete the following steps:If no common paging space devices are assigned to the shared memory pool, assign them to the shared memory pool. For instructions, see . Configure the logical partitions that use shared memory to use the paging VIOS partition that you assigned to the shared memory pool. For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:         
 Changing the paging VIOS partitions assigned to a shared memory partition You can use the  () to change the primary and secondary  logical partitions (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partitions) that are assigned to a logical partition that uses shared memory. You can also add or remove a secondary paging VIOS partition to or from a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition). Before you change the paging VIOS partitions that are assigned to a shared memory partition, complete the following tasks: Ensure that the  logical partitions (that you plan to assign to the shared memory partition as paging VIOS partitions) are assigned to the shared memory pool. For instructions, see . Ensure that the paging space device (that is accessed through the paging VIOS partitions that you plan to assign to the shared memory partition) is assigned to the shared memory pool. For instructions, see .   To change the paging VIOS partitions that are assigned to a shared memory partition, complete the following steps:  The Managed Profiles window is displayed.  The Logical Partition Profile Properties window is displayed.  Desired change Field to change Change the  logical partition that is assigned as the primary or the only paging VIOS partition. Select a different  logical partition for VIOS 1. Define a secondary paging VIOS partition. Select a  logical partition for VIOS 2. Change the  logical partition that is assigned as the secondary paging VIOS partition. Select a different  logical partition for VIOS 2. Remove the secondary paging VIOS partition. Select None for VIOS 2. After you change the paging VIOS partitions that are assigned to a shared memory partition, restart the shared memory partition with the changed partition profile. For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Changing the paging VIOS partitions assigned to the shared memory pool You can use the  () to change the  () logical partitions  that are assigned to the shared memory pool. Before you change the paging  partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool, complete the following steps:Shut down all of the shared memory partitions that use the paging  partition that you plan to change. You must shut down all of the shared memory partitions that use the paging  partition (that you plan to change) as the primary paging  partition, and you must shut down all of the shared memory partitions that use the paging  partition (that you plan to change) as the secondary paging  partition. For instructions, see . Verify that the  logical partition that you plan to assign to the shared memory pool as a paging  partition is running. (This is the  logical partition to which you plan to change the  assignment of a paging  partition.) Verify that you are a super administrator or an operator of the . The following table describes the situations in which you can change a paging VIOS partition. State of one paging  partition State of the other paging  partition Change options Running or shut down None. Only one paging  partition is assigned to the shared memory pool. You can change the  assignment of the paging  partition. In this situation, you also need to add the paging space devices to which the changed paging  partition has access. Running Running You can change the  assignment of one of the paging  partitions. You cannot change the  assignment of both paging  partitions at the same time. Running Shut down You can change the  assignment of only the paging  partition that is shut down. Shut down Running You can change the  assignment of only the paging  partition that is shut down. Shut down Shut down You cannot change the  assignment of either paging  partition. Instead, you can remove the paging  partition that you do not want to change and then change the  assignment of the remaining paging  partition. In this situation, you also need to add the paging space devices to which the changed paging  partition has access. When you change the  assignment of a paging  partition, the following configuration changes occur to the paging space devices: Paging space devices that were common become independent if only one paging  partition can access them. Paging space devices that were common remain common if both paging  partitions can access them. (These are paging space devices to which all three  logical partitions have access. The three  logical partitions are the two  logical partitions that were originally assigned to the shared memory pool as paging  partitions plus the  logical partition that you assigned as a paging  partition when you changed the  assignment of a paging  partition.) Paging space devices that were independent become common if both paging  partitions can access them. When you change the  assignment of a paging  partition, the  changes the configuration of the shared memory partitions to use the  logical partition that you assigned as the paging  partition. When you activate the shared memory partition, the  automatically reflects the name of the  logical partition that you assigned as the paging  partition in the partition profile. The following examples explain this automatic change in more detail: A shared memory partition uses only one paging  partition and you change the  assignment of that paging  partition from _A to _B. When you activate the shared memory partition, the  automatically shows _B as the paging  partition in the partition profile. Two paging  partitions are assigned to the shared memory pool. _A is assigned to the shared memory pool as PVP1 and _B is assigned to the shared memory pool as PVP2. A shared memory partition uses PVP1 as the primary paging  partition and PVP2 as the secondary paging  partition. You change the  assignment of PVP1 from _A to _C. When you activate the shared memory partition, the  automatically shows _C as the primary paging  partition and _B as the secondary paging  partition. To change the  logical partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool , complete the following steps from the :  The Shared Memory Pool wizard is displayed. After you change the VIOS assignment of a paging  partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool, complete the following steps:If necessary, assign paging space devices to the shared memory pool. For instructions, see . You might need to add paging space devices in the following situations:You changed the  assignment of the only paging  partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool.  You removed a paging  partition that was shut down and then changed the  assignment of the other paging  partition that was also shut down. Because you removed a paging  partition from the shared memory pool, you changed the  assignment of the only paging  partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool.  You changed the  assignment of a paging  partition that provided independent paging space devices to shared memory partitions. The independent paging space devices to which the current paging  partition has access must be assigned to the shared memory pool for the shared memory partitions to continue to use independent paging space devices. Activate all of the shared memory partitions that you previously shut down so that your changes can take effect. For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:         
 Managing the memory configuration of a logical partition You can use the  () to change the memory configuration of a logical partition. For example, you can  change the memory mode of a logical partition, and dynamically add and remove dedicated or shared memory to and from a logical partition. You can use the  () to change the primary and secondary  logical partitions (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partitions) that are assigned to a logical partition that uses shared memory. You can also add or remove a secondary paging VIOS partition to or from a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition). You can dynamically change the  factor for an  logical partition by using the  (). Changing the  factor for a logical partition increases or decreases the desired degree of expanded memory capacity for the logical partition. You can use the  () to change the memory weight of a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition). Changing the memory weight changes the probability that the shared memory partition receives physical memory from the shared memory pool in relation to other shared memory partitions. You can create multiple partition profiles for a logical partition by using the  (). Some of the partition profiles can specify dedicated memory and some of the partition profiles can specify shared memory. By creating partition profiles that specify both dedicated memory and shared memory for the same logical partition, you can change the memory mode of the logical partition by activating different partition profiles. You can add, remove, and move physical memory dynamically to and from running logical partitions using the  (). This allows you to adjust the physical memory allocated to each logical partition without having to shut down the logical partitions. You can dynamically add and remove logical memory and I/O entitled memory to and from a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) using the  ().  Parent topic:          
 Changing the  factor for  logical partitions You can dynamically change the  factor for an  logical partition by using the  (). Changing the  factor for a logical partition increases or decreases the desired degree of expanded memory capacity for the logical partition. You can change the  factor for logical partitions that use dedicated memory and logical partitions that use shared memory. To dynamically change the  factor for a logical partition, complete the following steps by using the :  The Add/Remove Memory Resources window is displayed. Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:         
 Managing  memory dynamically You can add, remove, and move physical memory dynamically to and from running logical partitions using the  (). This allows you to adjust the physical memory allocated to each logical partition without having to shut down the logical partitions. When a DPO operation is in progress and you want to dynamically add, remove, or move physical memory to, or from running logical partitions, you must either wait for the DPO operation to complete, or manually stop the DPO operation.  Dynamic memory changes on  logical partitions affect the base memory pool of the logical partitions (*BASE pool). Private memory pools or shared memory pools are not affected. Dynamic memory changes cannot cause the amount of memory in the base pool to fall below the minimum amount of memory required in the base pool (as determined by the base storage minimum size (QBASPOOL) system value). If a dynamic memory change would cause the base pool to fall below this amount, the system releases excess memory pages only after keeping the minimum amount of memory required in the base pool. To prevent any data loss during dynamic memory movement, the system first writes any data from memory pages to disk before making the memory pages available to another logical partition. Depending on the amount of memory you have requested to move, this might take some time.   Memory in each logical partition operates within its assigned minimum and maximum values. The full amount of memory that you assign to a logical partition might not be available for the logical partition to use. Static memory overhead that is required to support the assigned maximum memory affects the reserved or hidden memory amount. This static memory overhead also influences the minimum memory size of a logical partition.  If resources are moved dynamically, the configuration change is temporary and is not reflected in the partition profile. This means that all configuration changes will be lost the next time the partition profile is activated. If you want to save your new logical partition configuration, either change the partition profile or save the logical partition configuration to a new partition profile.  You can dynamically add physical memory to a running logical partition using the  (). This allows you to increase the physical memory available to a logical partition without having to shut down the logical partition.  You can dynamically change the  factor for an  logical partition by using the  (). Changing the  factor for a logical partition increases or decreases the desired degree of expanded memory capacity for the logical partition. You can dynamically move physical memory from one running logical partition to another using the  (). This allows you to reassign physical memory directly to a logical partition that needs additional physical memory.  You can dynamically remove physical memory from a running  logical partition using the  (). This allows you to reassign the physical memory to other logical partitions.  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Adding memory dynamically You can dynamically add physical memory to a running logical partition using the  (). This allows you to increase the physical memory available to a logical partition without having to shut down the logical partition.  A  logical partition supports the dynamic addition of memory resources only if the following conditions are met: A  distribution that supports the dynamic addition of memory resources is installed on the  logical partition. Distributions that support the dynamic addition of memory resources include , and later.  The DynamicRM tool package is installed on the  logical partition. To download the DynamicRM tool package, see the  Web site. To add memory to a  logical partition that uses an earlier version of these distributions, you must shut down the  logical partition and reactivate the logical partition using a partition profile that specifies a greater amount of memory. To add memory dynamically to a running logical partition using the , follow these steps:  You can enter the size in a combination of gigabytes (GB) plus megabytes (MB).  You might need to increase the value in the  field to allow enough time for the  to complete the operation. (These settings relate to how the managed system adds memory dynamically. These settings are not retained after the addition is completed.) Parent topic:          
 Moving memory dynamically You can dynamically move physical memory from one running logical partition to another using the  (). This allows you to reassign physical memory directly to a logical partition that needs additional physical memory.  You cannot dynamically move memory from a running  logical partition. To remove memory from a  logical partition, you must shut down the  logical partition and reactivate the logical partition using a partition profile that specifies a lesser amount of memory. You can dynamically move memory to a running  only if the following conditions are met: A  distribution that supports the dynamic addition of memory resources is installed on the  logical partition. Distributions that support the dynamic movement of memory resources include Novell , and later. The DynamicRM tool package is installed on the  logical partition. To download the DynamicRM tool package, see the  Web site. To move memory to a  logical partition that uses an earlier version of these distributions, you must shut down the  logical partition and reactivate the logical partition using a partition profile that specifies a greater amount of memory. To dynamically move memory from one running logical partition to another using the , follow these steps:  You can enter the size in a combination of gigabytes (GB) plus megabytes (MB).  You might need to increase the value in the  field to allow enough time for the  to complete the operation. (These settings relate to how the managed system moves memory dynamically. These settings are not retained after the move operation is completed.)  Parent topic:          
 Removing memory dynamically You can dynamically remove physical memory from a running  logical partition using the  (). This allows you to reassign the physical memory to other logical partitions.  You cannot dynamically remove memory from a running  logical partition. To remove memory from a  logical partition, you must shut down the logical partition and reactivate the logical partition using a partition profile that specifies a lesser amount of memory. To dynamically remove memory from a running logical partition  using the , follow these steps:  You can enter the size in a combination of gigabytes (GB) plus megabytes (MB).  You might need to increase the value in the  field to allow enough time for the  to complete the operation. (These settings relate to how the managed system removes memory dynamically. These settings are not retained after the removal is completed.) Parent topic:          
 Managing logical partition resources dynamically You use the  () to add, remove, or move processor, memory, and I/O resources between running logical partitions without restarting the logical partitions or the managed system.  Dynamic resource management is used only for running logical partitions. If a logical partition is not running, you cannot add resources to that logical partition dynamically or remove resources from that logical partition dynamically. Also, if you shut down a logical partition, you cannot move resources dynamically to or from that logical partition. (However, the resources that were used by that logical partition can be added dynamically to running logical partitions.) You can change the resource allocations for an idle logical partition by changing the properties of the partition profiles used by that logical partition. When you start the logical partition using one of the changed partition profiles, the managed system applies the changes to the logical partition.  processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.6, or later, can support the Dynamic Platform Optimizer (DPO) function.  DPO is a hypervisor function initiated from the  (). DPO rearranges logical partition processors and memory on the system to improve the affinity between processors and memory of logical partitions. When DPO is running, mobility operations that target the system that is being optimized are blocked. Also, when DPO is running, many virtualization features are blocked. When a DPO operation is in progress and you want to dynamically add, remove, or move physical memory to or from running logical partitions, you must either wait for the DPO operation to complete or manually stop the DPO operation. You can run the  command from the  () command line on  processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.6, or later, to start a Dynamic Platform Optimizer (DPO) operation or stop a DPO operation that is currently running.  Scheduled operation of the Dynamic Platform Optimizer (DPO) function is supported on  processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.6, or later. The  () must be at Version 7.8.0 or later. On  processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.8, or later, the  provides an additional flag with the  command for querying the current affinity score and the potential affinity score of a logical partition.  You can add, remove, and move physical memory dynamically to and from running logical partitions using the  (). This allows you to adjust the physical memory allocated to each logical partition without having to shut down the logical partitions. You can dynamically add and remove logical memory and I/O entitled memory to and from a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) using the  ().  You can dynamically add, remove, and move processor resources to and from running logical partitions using the  (). This allows you to adjust the processor resources allocated to each logical partition without having to shut down the logical partitions. You can dynamically add, remove, and move physical I/O devices and slots to and from running logical partitions using the  (). This allows logical partitions to share infrequently used I/O devices (such as optical disk drives). You can dynamically add and remove virtual adapters to and from running logical partitions using the  (). You can dynamically add, edit, and remove single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) logical ports to and from running logical partitions by using the  (). You can dynamically add, remove, and move 5250 commercial processing workload (5250 CPW) to and from running logical partitions using the  (). You can use the  () to schedule the movement of memory, dedicated processors, shared processors, and I/O devices between running logical partitions on a managed system. This allows you to move resources between running logical partitions without user intervention. You can save the current configuration of a logical partition to a new partition profile using the  (). Use this procedure if you change the configuration of a logical partition using dynamic partitioning and you do not want to lose the changes when you reactivate the logical partition. This procedure allows you to save the changed configuration to a new partition profile instead of having to enter the changed resource allocations manually. Parent topic:          
 Dynamic Platform Optimizer   processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.6, or later, can support the Dynamic Platform Optimizer (DPO) function.  DPO is a hypervisor function initiated from the  (). DPO rearranges logical partition processors and memory on the system to improve the affinity between processors and memory of logical partitions. When DPO is running, mobility operations that target the system that is being optimized are blocked. Also, when DPO is running, many virtualization features are blocked. When a DPO operation is in progress and you want to dynamically add, remove, or move physical memory to or from running logical partitions, you must either wait for the DPO operation to complete or manually stop the DPO operation. To help assess when DPO might be beneficial, you can use the  to determine affinity scores for the system and logical partitions by using the  command. An affinity score is a measure of the processor-memory affinity on the system or for a partition. The score is a number in the range 0 - 100, 0 represents the worst affinity and 100 represents perfect affinity. Based on the system  configuration, a  score of 100 might not be attainable. A partition that has no processor and memory resources does not have an affinity score, and none is displayed for the score on the command line, when you run the  command.  In addition to manually running DPO by using the  command, you can schedule  DPO operations on  processor-based servers with firmware at level 7.6, or later. The  must be at Version 7.8.0 or later. The following conditions apply to the DPO operation:The current server affinity score of the managed system is less than or equal to the server affinity threshold that you provided. The affinity delta (which is the potential score minus the current score) of the managed system is greater than or equal to the affinity delta threshold of the server that you provided.  The scheduled operation sends a DPO report after the successful completion of a DPO operation, only if it is enabled in the .   Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Performance considerations for logical partitions You can manage and enhance the performance of logical partitions so that your system uses its resources in the most efficient manner. You can manage and enhance the performance of a  logical partition by configuring the  operating system.  Managing  performance ensures that your managed system is efficiently using resources and that your managed system provides the best possible services to you and to your business. Moreover, effective performance management can help you quickly respond to changes in your managed system and can save on expenses by postponing costly upgrades and service fees.  You can run the  planning tool to generate performance statistics for an  logical partition that uses . Then, you can change the  factor, the memory assignment, or the processor assignment of the logical partition to improve its performance. You can learn about performance factors (such as shared memory overcommitment) that influence the performance of a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition). You can also use shared memory statistics to help you determine how to adjust the configuration of a shared memory partition to improve its performance. You can use the  () to adjust the configuration of your shared memory environment to improve its performance. For example, you can change the I/O entitled memory or the memory weight that is assigned to a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition.) Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related information:         
 Adjusting the  configuration to improve performance You can run the  planning tool to generate performance statistics for an  logical partition that uses . Then, you can change the  factor, the memory assignment, or the processor assignment of the logical partition to improve its performance. To adjust the  configuration to improve performance, complete the following steps:  When you run the planning tool on a workload that currently uses , the tool generates a report that provides the following information: Various statistics about memory compression and processor consumption. Several alternative configuration possibilities for  on the logical partition. Recommended configuration to improve the performance of  on the logical partition.  You can view more detailed statistics about memory compression and processor consumption by using the , , , and  commands.  Dynamically change the  factor that is set for the logical partition. For instructions, see . Dynamically add, move, or remove memory to or from the logical partition. For instructions, see one of the following tasks:For logical partitions that use dedicated memory, see . For logical partitions that use shared memory, see . Dynamically add, move, or remove processor resources to or from the logical partition. For instructions, see . Parent topic:          
 Adding and removing logical memory dynamically to and from a shared memory partition You can dynamically add and remove logical memory to and from a running logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) using the  (). This allows you to increase and decrease the logical memory assigned to the shared memory partition without having to shut down the logical partition.  A  shared memory partition supports the dynamic addition and removal of logical memory resources only if the DynamicRM tool package is installed on the  shared memory partition. To download the DynamicRM tool package, see the  Web site. To dynamically add and remove logical memory to and from a running logical partition using the , you must be a super administrator, service representative, product engineer, or operator of the .  To add or remove logical memory to or from a shared memory partition, complete the following steps from the :  The Add/Remove Memory Resources window is displayed.  You can enter the size in a combination of gigabytes (GB) plus megabytes (MB). Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Managing shared memory dynamically You can dynamically add and remove logical memory and I/O entitled memory to and from a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) using the  ().  Dynamic memory changes on  logical partitions affect the base memory pool of the logical partitions (*BASE pool). Private memory pools or shared memory pools are not affected. Dynamic memory changes cannot cause the amount of memory in the base pool to fall below the minimum amount of memory required in the base pool (as determined by the base storage minimum size (QBASPOOL) system value). If a dynamic memory change would cause the base pool to fall below this amount, the system releases excess memory pages only after keeping the minimum amount of memory required in the base pool. To prevent any data loss during dynamic memory movement, the system first writes any data from memory pages to disk before making the memory pages available to another logical partition. Depending on the amount of memory you have requested to move, this might take some time.   Memory in each logical partition operates within its assigned minimum and maximum values. The full amount of memory that you assign to a logical partition might not be available for the logical partition to use. Static memory overhead that is required to support the assigned maximum memory affects the reserved or hidden memory amount. This static memory overhead also influences the minimum memory size of a logical partition.  If resources are moved dynamically, the configuration change is temporary and is not reflected in the partition profile. This means that all configuration changes will be lost the next time the partition profile is activated. If you want to save your new logical partition configuration, either change the partition profile or save the logical partition configuration to a new partition profile.  You can dynamically add and remove logical memory to and from a running logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) using the  (). This allows you to increase and decrease the logical memory assigned to the shared memory partition without having to shut down the logical partition.  You can dynamically add and remove I/O entitled memory to and from a running logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) using the  (). This allows you to increase and decrease the maximum amount of physical memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition for its I/O devices without having to shut down the shared memory partition.  You can dynamically change the  factor for an  logical partition by using the  (). Changing the  factor for a logical partition increases or decreases the desired degree of expanded memory capacity for the logical partition. Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Adding and removing I/O entitled memory dynamically to and from a shared memory partition You can dynamically add and remove I/O entitled memory to and from a running logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) using the  (). This allows you to increase and decrease the maximum amount of physical memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition for its I/O devices without having to shut down the shared memory partition.  A  shared memory partition supports the dynamic addition and removal of I/O entitled memory resources only if the DynamicRM tool package is installed on the  shared memory partition. To download the DynamicRM tool package, see the  Web site. You can increase the amount of I/O entitled memory that is assigned to a shared memory partition when the sum of I/O entitled memory that is assigned to all shared memory partitions in the shared memory pool is less than the size of the shared memory pool minus the required amount of reserved firmware memory. If there is not enough physical memory in the shared memory pool by which to increase the I/O entitled memory to the amount specified, you can release to the hypervisor the physical memory that is currently assigned to other shared memory partitions that are shut down. The hypervisor can then assign the released physical memory to the shared memory partition that needs more I/O entitled memory. You can decrease the amount of I/O entitled memory that is assigned to a shared memory partition only when the shared memory partition requires less physical memory for its I/O devices than the amount of I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition. For example, you assign 128 MB of I/O entitled memory to a shared memory partition. The shared memory partition requires a minimum of 64 MB for its I/O devices. Thus, you can decrease the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition by up to 64 MB. For instructions about how to view the assigned, minimum, optimal, and maximum I/O entitled memory used by a shared memory partition, see . To dynamically add and remove I/O entitled memory to and from a running shared memory partition using the , you must be a super administrator, service representative, product engineer, or operator of the .  To add and remove I/O entitled memory to or from a shared memory partition, complete the following steps from the :  The Add/Remove Memory Resources window is displayed.  This changes the I/O entitled memory mode to the manual mode.  You can enter the size in a combination of gigabytes (GB) plus megabytes (MB).  If there is not enough physical memory in the shared memory pool by which to increase the I/O entitled memory to the amount specified in step , the Release Memory Resources window is displayed. If you want to later change the I/O entitled memory mode back to the auto mode so that the  and IVM automatically adjust the I/O entitled memory for the shared memory partition when you add or remove virtual adapters, repeat this procedure and select . Alternatively, you can restart the shared memory partition. When you restart a shared memory partition, the I/O entitled memory mode is set to the auto mode regardless of what the I/O entitled memory mode was set to before you restarted the shared memory partition. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:         
 Determining the I/O entitled memory for a shared memory partition After you create a new logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) or you dynamically add or remove a virtual adapter, you can use memory statistics that are displayed by the  () to dynamically increase and decrease the amount of I/O entitled memory assigned to a shared memory partition. The I/O entitled memory set for a shared memory partition needs to be high enough to ensure the progress of I/O operations, and low enough to ensure adequate memory use among all the shared memory partitions in the shared memory pool. The operating system manages the I/O entitled memory allocated to a shared memory partition by distributing it among the I/O device drivers. The operating system monitors how the device drivers use the I/O entitled memory, and sends usage data to the . You can view the data in the  and dynamically adjust the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to a shared memory partition.  To determine the I/O entitled memory for a shared memory partition, complete the following steps using the :    The Partition Properties page is displayed.  The Memory Statistics panel is displayed.   If the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is less than the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value, the operating system is able to run all of the workload's I/O operations simultaneously without using all of its assigned I/O entitled memory. In this situation, you can decrease the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value to the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value and continue to maintain unconstrained I/O performance. If the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is equal to the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value, the I/O operations of the shared memory partition might or might not be constrained by the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value as follows:The Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value does not constrain the I/O operations: The operating system runs all of the workload's I/O operations simultaneously and uses all of the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to it. In this situation, the shared memory partition operates with the smallest amount of I/O entitled memory necessary to maintain unconstrained I/O performance. The Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value constrains the I/O operations: The workload requires more physical memory for I/O operations than the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value, so the operating system must delay some I/O operations so that the shared memory partition operates within the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value. In this situation, you can increase the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value so that it no longer constrains I/O performance. If you are unsure as to whether the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value constrains the I/O operations of the shared memory partition, you can increase the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition, reset the data collector, and view the memory statistics again. Repeat this process until the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value no longer equals the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value. You can also view statistics, for  shared memory partitions, that show the number and frequency of delayed I/O operations. For instructions about how to view these statistics, see .  For instructions, see . (Dynamically changing the I/O entitled memory also changes the I/O entitled memory mode to the manual mode.)   For example, you create a shared memory partition with eight virtual adapters. You activate the shared memory partition and the  automatically assigns 128 MB of I/O entitled memory to the shared memory partition. After some time, you view the memory statistics for the shared memory partition and see that the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is 96 MB. You dynamically decrease the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition from 128 MB to 96 MB and reset the data collector. After some time, you view the memory statistics for the shared memory partition and see that the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is 88 MB. Because 88 MB is similar to 96 MB, you decide to leave the I/O entitled memory assigned to 96 MB for the shared memory partition. ExamplesCreating a new shared memory partition You activate the new shared memory partition. The  automatically sets the I/O entitled memory for the shared memory partition. After some time, you view the memory statistics and see that the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is much less than the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value. You dynamically decrease the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition to the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value and reset the data collector. (Dynamically decreasing the I/O entitled memory also changes the I/O entitled memory mode to the manual mode.) After some time, you view the memory statistics again and determine that the new Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is only slightly less than the new Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value, and no further adjustment is necessary. Dynamically adding a virtual adapter to a shared memory partition in the auto I/O entitled memory mode You dynamically add a virtual adapter to a shared memory partition. The  automatically increases the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition. After some time, you view the memory statistics and see that the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is much less than the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value. You dynamically decrease the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition to the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value and reset the data collector. (Dynamically decreasing the I/O entitled memory also changes the I/O entitled memory mode to the manual mode.) After some time, you view the memory statistics again and determine that the new Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is only slightly less than the new Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value, and no further adjustment is necessary. Dynamically adding a virtual adapter to a shared memory partition in the manual I/O entitled memory mode You ensure that the shared memory partition has enough I/O entitled memory to accommodate the new adapter by dynamically increasing the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition. You dynamically add a virtual adapter to the shared memory partition. After some time, you view the memory statistics and see that the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is much less than the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value. You dynamically decrease the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition to the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value and reset the data collector. After some time, you view the memory statistics again and determine that the new Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is only slightly less than the new Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value, and no further adjustment is necessary. Dynamically removing a virtual adapter from a shared memory partition You dynamically remove a virtual adapter from a shared memory partition. If the I/O entitled memory mode is in the auto mode, the  automatically decreases the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition. You reset the data collector. After some time, you view the memory statistics and see that the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is much less than the Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value. You dynamically decrease the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition to the Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value and reset the data collector. (If the I/O entitled memory mode is in the auto mode, dynamically decreasing the I/O entitled memory also changes the I/O entitled memory mode to the manual mode.) After some time, you view the memory statistics again and determine that the new Maximum I/O Entitled Memory Used value is only slightly less than the new Assigned I/O Entitled Memory value, and no further adjustment is necessary. The following example is another way to accomplish this example for  shared memory partitions: Determine the amount of physical memory that the virtual adapter (that you plan to remove) currently uses by running the  from the  command line. If the I/O entitled memory mode is in the auto mode, dynamically change the I/O entitled memory mode to the manual mode by running the  command from the  command line. Using the  graphical interface, dynamically remove the virtual adapter. Using the  graphical interface, dynamically decrease the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition by the amount that you identified in step . Related concepts: Related tasks:         
 I/O entitled memory I/O entitled memory is the maximum amount of physical memory (from the shared memory pool) that is guaranteed to be available to a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) for its I/O devices at any given time. Each shared memory partition is entitled to some portion of the shared memory pool so that the I/O devices that are assigned to the shared memory partition have access to physical memory during I/O operations. If the minimum amount of memory that I/O devices require for I/O operations does not reside in the shared memory pool for as long as the device needs the memory, the device fails. Virtual adapters that are entitled to physical memory from the shared memory pool include virtual SCSI adapters, virtual Ethernet adapters, and virtual Fibre Channel adapters. Virtual serial adapters are not entitled to physical memory from the shared memory pool.  The following figure shows a shared memory partition with I/O entitled memory. The figure shows a shared memory partition with 128 MB of I/O entitled memory. The shared memory partition uses 64 MB of physical memory for its I/O devices, which is less than its I/O entitled memory of 128 MB. As depicted in the previous figure, a shared memory partition might not use all of its I/O entitled memory at any given time. Unused portions of the I/O entitled memory assigned to a shared memory partition are available to the hypervisor to allocate to other shared memory partitions, if necessary. The hypervisor does not reserve unused portions of I/O entitled memory for the shared memory partition to use in the future. However, the hypervisor guarantees that the shared memory partition can use the entire portion of the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to it as needed. If the shared memory partition later requires some of its unused I/O entitled memory, the hypervisor must allocate enough physical memory from the shared memory pool to satisfy the new I/O memory requirement, without exceeding the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition. For example, you assign 128 MB of I/O entitled memory to a shared memory partition. The shared memory partition uses only 64 MB for its I/O devices. Thus, the hypervisor allocates 64 MB of physical memory from the shared memory pool to the shared memory partition for its I/O devices. The remaining 64 MB is available to the hypervisor to allocate to other shared memory partitions, if necessary. Later, you add two virtual adapters to the shared memory partition, each requiring 16 MB of memory. Thus, the shared memory partition needs an additional 32 MB of physical memory for its I/O devices. Because the shared memory partition currently uses only 64 MB of physical memory for its I/O devices and the shared memory partition is entitled to use up to 128 MB for its I/O devices, the hypervisor allocates an additional 32 MB of physical memory from the shared memory pool to the shared memory partition to accommodate the new virtual adapters. The shared memory partition now uses 96 MB of physical memory from the shared memory pool for its I/O devices. Because unused portions of I/O entitled memory are available to the hypervisor to allocate elsewhere, it is possible for the amount of total physical memory that the hypervisor allocates from the shared memory pool to a shared memory partition to be less than the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition. The following figure shows this situation. The figure shows a shared memory partition with 128 MB of I/O entitled memory. The shared memory partition uses 64 MB of physical memory for its I/O devices. The unused portion of the I/O entitled memory, 64 MB, is available to the hypervisor to allocate to other shared memory partitions, if necessary. The hypervisor allocates a total of 96 MB of physical memory from the shared memory pool to the shared memory partition, which is less than the I/O entitled memory of 128 MB. When you create a shared memory partition, the  () and the  (IVM) automatically set the I/O entitled memory for the shared memory partition. When you activate a shared memory partition, the  and IVM set the I/O entitled memory mode to the auto mode. In the auto mode, the  and IVM automatically adjust the I/O entitled memory for the shared memory partition when you add or remove virtual adapters. The I/O entitled memory mode can also be set to the manual mode. You can dynamically change the I/O entitled memory mode to the manual mode and then dynamically change the I/O entitled memory for the shared memory partition. When you add or remove a virtual adapter to or from the shared memory partition in manual mode, the  and IVM do not automatically adjust the I/O entitled memory. Therefore, you might need to dynamically adjust the I/O entitled memory when you dynamically add or remove adapters to or from the shared memory partition. On -managed systems, you use the graphical interface to dynamically change the I/O entitled memory mode. When the I/O entitled memory mode is in the manual mode, you can also use the graphical interface to dynamically change the amount of I/O entitled memory that is assigned to a shared memory partition. On IVM-managed systems, you use the  command to dynamically change the I/O entitled memory mode. When the I/O entitled memory mode is in the manual mode, you can also use the  command to dynamically change the amount of I/O entitled memory that is assigned to a shared memory partition. When you restart a shared memory partition, the I/O entitled memory mode is set to the auto mode regardless of what the I/O entitled memory mode was set to before you restarted the shared memory partition.  When the amount of physical memory that a shared memory partition uses for its I/O devices is equal to the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition, the shared memory partition cannot use any more physical memory for its I/O devices. In this situation, the following actions can occur: The operating system that runs in the shared memory partition manages the I/O operations so that the workload that runs in the shared memory partition operates within the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition. If the workload attempts to use more physical memory for I/O operations than the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition, the operating system delays some I/O operations while it runs other I/O operations. In this situation, the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition constrains the I/O configuration of the shared memory partition because the operating system does not have enough physical memory to run all of the I/O operations simultaneously. When you dynamically add a virtual adapter to the shared memory partition and the I/O entitled memory mode is in the manual mode, the I/O configuation of the shared memory partition might become constrained, or the adapter might fail when you attempt to configure it. If the adapter fails, then there is not enough I/O entitled memory assigned to the shared memory partition to accommodate the new adapter. To resolve the problem, you can dynamically increase the amount of I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition, or you can remove some existing virtual adapters from the shared memory partition. When you remove virtual adapters from the shared memory partition, the physical memory that those adapters were using becomes available for the new adapter.  When you dynamically add a virtual adapter to the shared memory partition and the I/O entitled memory mode is in the auto mode, the  and IVM automatically increase the I/O entitled memory assigned to the shared memory partition to accommodate the new adapter. If the  and IVM cannot increase the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition, there is not enough physical memory available in the shared memory pool for the hypervisor to allocate to the shared memory partition and the adapter cannot be assigned to the shared memory partition. To resolve the problem, you can add physical memory to the shared memory pool, or you can remove some existing virtual adapters from the shared memory partition. When you remove virtual adapters from the shared memory partition, the physical memory that those adapters were using becomes available for the new adapter. To improve performance and memory use, , IVM provide statistics about how the operating system uses the physical memory allocated to it for its I/O devices. You can use these statistics to manually adjust the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to a shared memory partition.  Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:         
 Data flow for shared memory partitions When the operating system that runs in a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition) needs to access data, the data must reside in the shared memory pool. Systems with overcommitted memory configurations require the hypervisor and at least one  (VIOS) logical partition that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as paging VIOS partition) to move data between the shared memory pool and the paging space devices as needed. In a shared memory configuration that is physically overcommitted (where the sum of the logical memory that is currently used by all the shared memory partitions is greater than the amount of memory in the shared memory pool), the hypervisor stores some of the logical memory that belongs to a shared memory partition in the shared memory pool and some of the logical memory in a paging space device. In order for the operating system in a shared memory partition to access its memory, the memory must be in the shared memory pool. Thus, when the operating system needs to access data that is stored on the paging space device, the hypervisor works with a paging VIOS partition to move the data from the paging space device to the shared memory pool so that the operating system can access it. The following figure shows the data flow for shared memory. In general, the data flows as follows: The operating system that runs in a shared memory partition attempts to access data.If the data is in the shared memory pool, processing continues with step . If the data is not in the shared memory pool, a page fault occurred. The hypervisor inspects the page fault and discovers that the hypervisor moved the data to the paging space device, thereby causing the page fault. Processing continues with step .  (If the operating system that runs in the shared memory partition moved the data to auxiliary storage, thereby causing the page fault, then the operating system must retrieve the data.) The hypervisor sends a request to a paging VIOS partition to retrieve the data from the paging space device and to write it to the shared memory pool. The paging VIOS partition searches the paging space device that is assigned to the shared memory partition and finds the data. The paging VIOS partition writes the data to the shared memory pool. The paging VIOS partition notifies the hypervisor that the data is in the shared memory pool. The hypervisor notifies the operating system that it can access the data. The operating system accesses the data in the shared memory pool. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Logical memory Logical memory is the address space, assigned to a logical partition, that the operating system perceives as its main storage. For a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition), a subset of the logical memory is backed up by physical main storage and the remaining logical memory is kept in auxiliary storage. You can configure minimum, maximum, desired, and assigned logical memory sizes for a shared memory partition.  Logical memory size Description Minimum The minimum amount of logical memory with which you want the shared memory partition to operate. You can dynamically remove logical memory from the shared memory partition down to this value. Maximum The maximum amount of logical memory that the shared memory partition is allowed to use. You can dynamically add logical memory to the shared memory partition up to this value. Desired The amount of logical memory with which you want the shared memory partition to activate. Assigned The amount of logical memory that the shared memory partition can use. A shared memory partition does not have to use all of its assigned logical memory at any given time. On systems that are managed by a  (), you configure the minimum, maximum, and desired logical memory sizes in the partition profile. When you activate the shared memory partition, the  assigns the desired logical memory to the shared memory partition.  On systems that are managed by the  (IVM), you configure the minimum, maximum, and desired logical memory sizes in the partition properties. When you create the shared memory partition, the IVM assigns the desired logical memory to the shared memory partition.  The following figure shows a shared memory partition with its logical memory.  You can change the assigned logical memory by dynamically adding or removing logical memory to or from the shared memory partition. You can dynamically add logical memory to the shared memory partition up to the maximum logical memory size, and you can dynamically remove logical memory from the shared memory partition down to its minimum logical memory size. If the shared memory pool is physically overcommitted, the hypervisor stores 0.2 GB of the shared memory partition's memory in a paging space device. When the shared memory partition needs to access the data that resides in the paging space device, the hypervisor retrieves the data for the operating system. The amount of physical memory allocated to the shared memory partition can be less than the minimum logical memory size. This is because the minimum logical memory size is a boundary for logical memory, not for physical memory. In addition to the minimum logical memory size, the maximum, desired, and assigned logical memory sizes also do not control the amount of physical memory assigned to the shared memory partition. Likewise, dynamically adding or removing logical memory to or from a shared memory partition does not change the amount of physical memory allocated to the shared memory partition. When you set the logical memory sizes and dynamically add or remove logical memory, you set or change the amount of memory that the operating system can use, and the hypervisor decides how to distribute that memory between the shared memory pool and the paging space device. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:         
 Shared memory distribution The hypervisor uses the memory weight of each logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as shared memory partitions) to help determine which logical partitions receive more physical memory from the shared memory pool. To help optimize performance and memory use, the operating systems that run in shared memory partitions provide the hypervisor with information about how the operating system uses its memory to help the hypervisor determine which pages to store in the shared memory pool and which pages to store in the paging space devices. In a shared memory configuration that is physically overcommitted (where the sum of the logical memory that is currently used by of all shared memory partitions is greater than the amount of memory in the shared memory pool), the hypervisor stores a portion of the logical memory in the shared memory pool and stores the remainder of the logical memory in the paging space devices. The hypervisor determines the amount of physical memory to allocate from the shared memory pool to each shared memory partition and the amount of logical memory to store in the paging space devices. The hypervisor also determines which pieces, or pages, of memory to store in each location.  The smallest amount of physical memory that the hypervisor can allocate from the shared memory pool to a shared memory partition at any given time is the amount of physical memory that the shared memory partition requires for its I/O devices. The hypervisor guarantees to each shared memory partition that the shared memory partition can use a portion of the shared memory pool for its I/O devices, up to the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition. The largest amount of physical memory that the hypervisor can allocate from the shared memory pool to a shared memory partition at any given time is the amount of logical memory assigned to the shared memory partition. The amount of physical memory from the shared memory pool that the hypervisor allocates to the shared memory partitions is determined by the workloads that are running in the shared memory partitions and the amount of logical memory that is assigned to each shared memory partition. You can influence how much physical memory the hypervisor allocates from the shared memory pool to each shared memory partition by specifying a memory weight for each shared memory partition. Memory weight is a relative value that is one of the factors that the hypervisor uses to allocate physical memory from the shared memory pool to the shared memory partitions. A higher memory weight relative to the memory weights of other shared memory partitions increases the probability that the hypervisor allocates more physical memory to a shared memory partition.  To help maintain the best possible performance, the operating system that runs in a shared memory partition continually attempts to operate within the amount of physical memory allocated to it from the shared memory pool by moving its overcommitted logical memory to a paging space. In general, the operating system moves its memory to a paging space more often when it runs in a shared memory partition than when it runs in a dedicated memory partition. Therefore, the paging space that the operating system uses to manage its memory needs to be larger when the logical partition uses shared memory than when the logical partition uses dedicated memory. The operating systems that run in shared memory partitions provide information to the hypervisor about how the operating system uses its pages. When the hypervisor manages the overcommitted logical memory, it uses this information to determine which pages to store in the paging space device and which pages to store in the shared memory pool. When the hypervisor needs to deallocate physical memory from the shared memory partition and move it to the paging space device, the hypervisor requests the operating system to release pages. The operating system might mark the pages that it will not use, and the hypervisor moves the marked pages first. This enables the hypervisor to select the most optimal pages to move out of the shared memory pool, which improves memory use and performance. For example, the operating system uses one page for kernel data and another page for cache and the hypervisor needs to move one page to the paging space device. The hypervisor moves the cache page to the paging space device to optimize performance.  Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks: Related information:         
 Changing the memory weight of a shared memory partition You can use the  () to change the memory weight of a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition). Changing the memory weight changes the probability that the shared memory partition receives physical memory from the shared memory pool in relation to other shared memory partitions. A  shared memory partition supports changing the memory weight only if the DynamicRM tool package is installed on the  shared memory partition. To download the DynamicRM tool package, see the  Web site. To change the memory weight assigned to the shared memory partition, complete the following steps from the :  The Add/Remove Memory Resources window is displayed. Changing the memory weight of a shared memory partition is temporary and is not reflected in the partition profile. The new memory weight that you assigned to the shared memory partition will be lost the next time you activate the partition profile. If you want to save the changes that you made to the memory weight of the shared memory partition, either change the partition profile or save the logical partition configuration to a new partition profile. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Managing memory properties for shared memory partitions You can use the  to manage memory attributes for logical partitions that use shared memory. For logical partitions that use shared memory, you can use the  to manage some additional memory properties that apply to these partitions.  You can change the memory weight for the shared memory partition. The memory weight is a relative value that is one of the factors that the hypervisor uses in determining the allocation of physical system memory from the shared memory pool to a shared memory partition. A higher value relative to the values set for other shared memory partitions increases the probability of the hypervisor allocating more physical system memory from the memory pool to the shared memory partition with the higher value.  A  shared memory partition supports changing the memory weight only if the DynamicRM tool package is installed on the  shared memory partition. To download the DynamicRM tool package, see the  Web site. You also can change the memory mode for the partition from shared memory mode to dedicated memory mode or from dedicated mode to shared mode. To be able to change the memory mode from shared to dedicated for a logical partition, you must have enough physical system memory available to fulfill the current Assigned memory value and the partition must be shut down. To be able to change the memory mode from dedicated to shared for a client logical partition, the partition must use shared processors and cannot have any I/O devices or Integrated Virtual Ethernet (IVE) adapters (also known as Host Ethernet Adapters) assigned to it. The partition must be virtual. The logical partition also must be shut down.   You cannot use the  to change the I/O entitled memory, which is the amount of memory from the shared memory pool that the partition is entitled to use for I/O mapping purposes. The  manages this property for a partition that is based on the virtual I/O configuration of the partition unless you use the IVM command line interface (CLI) to define this property. To change the memory weight or the memory mode for a shared memory partition, complete these steps in the :  The View/Modify Partitions page is displayed.  The Partition Properties page is displayed.  The pending memory weight value must be greater than, or equal to, 0 but less than, or equal to, 255. Set this value relative to other shared memory partitions to rank the importance of having more physical memory from the shared memory pool available for this partition.   The management partition synchronizes the current assigned value with the pending assigned value. Synchronization can take several seconds to complete. You can perform other tasks on the system while the management partition is synchronizing the current and pending values.  Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:    |      
 Managing partitions by using the  You can use the logical partition management tasks of the  to create and manage the logical partitions on your managed system. You can use the  to activate logical partitions on the managed system. You can use a workload management tool to manage resources that your logical partitions use. To do so, you must use the  to add the client logical partition to the partition workload group. You can use the  to delete logical partitions from the managed system. You can use the  to change the amount of memory that a running logical partition uses. You can use the  to change the physical adapters that a running logical partition uses. You can use the  to change the processing power assigned to a running logical partition. You can use the  to view and modify the properties of the logical partitions on your managed system. You can use the  to manage memory attributes for logical partitions that use shared memory. You can use the  to migrate an inactive or a running client logical partition to another system managed by another .  You can use the virtual terminal on the  to connect to a logical partition. You can use the  to shut down the logical partitions or to shut down the entire managed system. You can use the operator panel service functions in the  to perform a number of service and maintenance tasks. These tasks include shutting down, restarting, or initiating a system memory dump on logical partitions. These functions are also known as control panel functions. You can use the  to view the status, to stop, or to recover the migration of a logical partition, whether the partition is migrating to this managed system or to another managed system. You can use the  to display reference codes for the logical partitions on your managed system. Reference codes provide general system diagnostic, troubleshooting, and debugging information. Parent topic:     |      
 Activating logical partitions You can use the  to activate logical partitions on the managed system. Use any role other than View Only to perform this task. You can activate logical partitions manually after you power on the managed system, or you can reactivate a logical partition after you have shut down the logical partition manually. To activate a logical partition, complete the following steps in the :  The View/Modify Partitions page is displayed.  You can select more than one logical partition for this task.  The Activate Partitions page is displayed. Verify the partition ID, partition name, and the current state of the logical partition.  The View/Modify Partitions page is displayed and the logical partition state has a value of running.  Each logical partition activates with the boot mode and keylock position that are specified for the logical partition on the Partition Properties page. Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 User roles Learn about the user roles for the . The user role determines which functions a user can access or use. You cannot change the user role that is assigned to a user account after the user account is created. You cannot create user accounts with the same authority as the padmin user account. The following table lists the user roles available for the . User role Description padmin This role is similar to the root user. Only one padmin user can be created for the . The padmin user account is required to view, change, or create user accounts, and this account can perform all tasks in the . View/Modify This role is the default type for all users that are not padmin. This role can perform most functions within . The command-line interface calls this role the Administrator role. View Only This role is a read-only role and can perform only list-type (ls) functions. Users with this role do not have the authority to change the system configuration and do not have write permission to their home directories. The command-line interface calls this role the View role. Development Engineer (DE) This role is used only by personnel to debug problems. Some  service functions are available only for DE accounts. Service Representative (SR) This role allows service representatives to run commands that are required to service the system without being logged in as root. The standard SR login user name is qserv. Some  service functions are available only for SR accounts. The service commands for SR accounts include the following:Run diagnostics, including service aids, such as hot plug tasks, certify, and format. Run all commands that can be run by a group system. Configure and unconfigure devices that are not busy. Use the service aid to update system microcode. Perform the shutdown and restart operations. Parent topic:  Related reference:    |      
 Creating and modifying user accounts Use the user-management tasks to manage the Integrated Virtualization Manager user accounts on your managed system. Use the padmin user account to view, change, or create user accounts. The management partition on the managed system uses the same user accounts as on the . This means that changes that you make to user accounts by using the  also apply to the user accounts on the management partition. For example, if you change the password for a user account in the , then you must use the new password when you use that user account to log in to the management partition. To view a list of  user accounts, and to start user maintenance tasks for those user accounts, click . Learn about the user roles for the . This topic describes how to create  user accounts and set basic properties, such as user ID, password, and role. Use the  to change the properties of user accounts, such as number of login retries and the account expiration date. Learn how to change the password settings and restrictions for  user accounts. These settings include the number of weeks until the password expires, minimum password length, and other restrictions. Learn how to remove  user accounts. Learn how to change user passwords in the . Use the  to edit your user profile. Specifically, learn how to change your user password. Parent topic:  Related reference:    |      
 Creating user accounts This topic describes how to create  user accounts and set basic properties, such as user ID, password, and role. Use the padmin user account for this task. To create a user account, do the following:  The Create User Accounts panel is displayed.  The Create User Account window displays.  The user account is created. You can create additional user accounts, if necessary.  Only the basic user properties are set up when you create a user account. You can specify additional user properties, such as password restrictions and account expiration date, by changing user properties. When you create a user account from this panel, the default user role is Administrator. Users with the Administrator user role have authority to perform all tasks except for user maintenance tasks and tasks involving the global command log and the failed login log. You also cannot create user accounts with the same authority as the padmin user account. The padmin user account can use the  to perform all tasks. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:    |      
 Changing user properties Use the  to change the properties of user accounts, such as number of login retries and the account expiration date. Use the padmin user account for this task. To change the properties of a user account, do the following:  A list of user accounts is displayed.  The User Properties window displays.  The list of user accounts is displayed again. Changes that you make to the settings on the  tab take effect the next time that the user logs in to the .  The management partition on the managed system uses the same user accounts as on the . This means that changes that you make to user accounts using the  also apply to management partition user accounts. For example, if you change the password for a user account in the , then you must use the new password when you use that user account to log in to the management partition. Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Changing password settings Learn how to change the password settings and restrictions for  user accounts. These settings include the number of weeks until the password expires, minimum password length, and other restrictions. Use the padmin user account for this task. To change the password settings for a user account, do the following:  A list of user accounts is displayed.  The User Properties window displays.  The list of user accounts is displayed again. Changes that you make to the settings on the  tab take effect the next time that the user logs into the .  The management partition on the managed system uses the same user accounts as on the . This means that changes that you make to user accounts using the  also apply to management partition user accounts. For example, if you change the password for a user account in the , then you must use the new password when you use that user account to log into the management partition. Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Removing user accounts Learn how to remove  user accounts. Use the padmin user account for this task.  This procedure deletes all user information from the  and the management partition. This procedure includes the home directories for those users on the management partition and all files within those directories. To preserve the files within the home directories, use the command-line interface on the management partition to copy the files to another location before removing the user accounts. To remove a user account, do the following:  A list of user accounts is displayed.  The Remove User Accounts window displays, which lists the user accounts you selected to remove.  The list of user accounts is displayed again, and the user account you removed is no longer displayed. You can select multiple user accounts to remove. . Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Changing user passwords Learn how to change user passwords in the . Use the padmin user account for this task. To change a user password, do the following:  A list of user accounts is displayed.  The Change Password window displays.  The password is changed, and the list of user accounts is displayed again. The next time that the user logs in to , the password change takes effect, and the user is required to change it. The management partition on the managed system uses the same user accounts as the . This means that the password change that you make here also applies to the management partition user account. Users can change their own user passwords by clicking  in the toolbar. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:    |      
 Editing your user profile Use the  to edit your user profile. Specifically, learn how to change your user password. You must be logged in with the user account for which you want to change the password. To change the password for your user account, do the following:  The  dialog box is displayed.  The password is changed, and the  page is displayed. The password change takes effect the next time that you log into the . The management partition on the managed system uses the same user accounts as on the . This means that the password change that you make here also applies to the management partition user account. The padmin user account can change passwords for any user account. Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
 mkuser command Purpose Creates a new user account.    Syntax mkuser   [ |  ] [ Attributes=Value   [ Attribute=Value... ] ] Name   Description The mkuser command creates a new user account.  Upon completion of creating a the new account you are prompted to set the new account password. User accounts are created with the -attr pgrp=view are designated as read only. These users do not have the authority to change the system configuration and do not have write permission to their home directories.   Flags Flag name Description -attr Attribute=Value Identifies the attribute to set, as well as the new value for the attribute.  The Attribute=Value parameter can use one attribute value pair or multiple attribute value pairs for one -attr flag.  For a complete list of supported attributes, see . -de Creates a Development Engineer (DE) user account.  This type of account allows  developers to log into the  and debug problems.  -ldap Identifies the user as an LDAP user account. LDAP user accounts are authenticated through the LDAP load module.  -sr Creates a service representative (SR) user account. This type of account enables a service representative to run commands required to service the system without being logged in as root.  This includes the following command types: Run diagnostics, including service aids (for example, hot plug tasks, certify, format, and so forth). Run all commands that can be run by a group system. Configure and unconfigure devices that are not busy. Use the service aid to update system microcode. Perform the shut down and reboot operations.  The recommended SR login user name is qserv.   Exit Status See .   Security This command can only be run by the prime administrator (padmin) user.   Examples To create the davis user account with default values, type the following command: mkuser davis    To create the davis user account and set the maxage attribute to a value of 52, type the following command: mkuser -attr maxage=52 davis To create a user with read only authority, type the following command: mkuser -attr pgrp=view View1   Related Information The  command, the  command, the  command, and the  command.   Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Adding a client logical partition to the partition workload group You can use a workload management tool to manage resources that your logical partitions use. To do so, you must use the  to add the client logical partition to the partition workload group. A partition workload group identifies a set of logical partitions that are located on the same physical system. Workload management tools use partition workload groups to identify which logical partitions they can manage. For example, Enterprise Workload Manager™ (EWLM) can dynamically and automatically redistribute processing capacity within a partition workload group to satisfy workload performance goals. EWLM adjusts processing capacity based on calculations that compare the actual performance of work processed by the partition workload group to the business goals defined for the work. Workload management tools use dynamic logical partitioning (DLPAR) to make resource adjustments based on performance goals. For example, the partition management function of EWLM adjusts processor resources based on workload performance goals. Thus, EWLM can adjust the processing capacity for  logical partitions.  Do not add the management partition to the partition workload group. To manage logical partition resources, workload management tools often require that you install some type of management or agent software on the logical partitions. To avoid creating an unsupported environment, do not install additional software on the management partition. For    partitions, the DLPAR support of the operating system is not the same as the DLPAR capabilities that are in the partition properties for a logical partition. The DLPAR capabilities that are shown in the partition properties for a logical partition reflect a combination of the following factors:A Resource Monitoring and Control (RMC) connection between the management partition and the client logical partition The DLPAR support of the operating system    If a logical partition is part of the partition workload group, you cannot dynamically manage its resources from the  because the workload management tool is in control of dynamic resource management. Not all workload management tools dynamically manage processor, memory,  resources. When you implement a workload management tool that manages only one resource type, you limit your ability to dynamically manage the other resource types.   To add a logical partition to the partition workload group, complete the following steps in the :  The View/Modify Partitions page displays.  The  page is displayed. Parent topic:     |      
 Deleting logical partitions You can use the  to delete logical partitions from the managed system. Use any role other than View Only to perform this task.  When you delete a logical partition, all memory, processor, and storage resources that belonged to the logical partition become available for assignment to other logical partitions. To delete a logical partition, complete the following steps in the :  The View/Modify Partitions page is displayed.  You can select multiple logical partitions to delete.  The Delete Partitions page is displayed, which shows the partition IDs, partition names, and operating state for the logical partitions selected for deletion. There is also an option to delete associated virtual disks for the partition.  The View/Modify Partitions page is displayed and the deleted logical partitions are no longer listed. Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Dynamically managing memory You can use the  to change the amount of memory that a running logical partition uses. You can change the amount of memory that a running logical partition uses, if the partition is capable of dynamic memory changes.  To dynamically change the amount of memory that a running logical partition uses, complete these steps in the :  The View/Modify Partitions page is displayed.  The Partition Properties page is displayed.  You might need to click  to verify this value. If  is the value for , then you cannot dynamically change the memory settings for the logical partition while the logical partition is active.  If the client logical partition uses shared memory, you can dynamically change the Pending values, including the memory weight. However, you cannot change the memory mode of a running logical partition. For logical partitions that use either dedicated memory or shared memory, you can change the minimum and maximum memory values only while the logical partition is not running.  The management partition synchronizes the current assigned value with the pending assigned value. Synchronization can take several seconds to complete. You can perform other tasks on the system while the management partition is synchronizing the current and pending values.  Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
 Modifying partition properties You can use the  to view and modify the properties of the logical partitions on your managed system. Use any role other than view only to perform this task. Users with the Service Representative (SR) user role cannot view or modify storage values. If the logical partition is powered off, you can use this procedure to change most properties for a logical partition. Your changes take effect when you reactivate the logical partition. If the logical partition is capable of dynamic LPAR (DLPAR), you can change a number of properties while the logical partition is active.  To view and modify the properties of a logical partition, complete the following steps :  The View/Modify Partitions page is displayed.  The Partition Properties page is displayed.   to view the logical partition identifiers and the operating state of the selected logical partition.   to view or modify the memory management information for the selected logical partition.   to view or modify the processor management settings for the selected logical partition.   to view or modify the logical partition settings for  virtual Ethernet adapters, and physical Ethernet adapters. The Ethernet settings that you can modify vary based on the operating system for the selected partition.  to view or modify the logical partition storage settings. You can view and modify settings for virtual disks and physical volumes.   to view or modify the logical partition settings for physical optical devices.   to view or modify the physical adapters assigned to the selected logical partition. Because all the resources for  client logical partitions must be virtual resources, the Physical adapters tab is not shown for  logical client partitions. The  and  tabs are displayed for all logical partitions except the management partition.  The View/Modify Partitions page is displayed. If the logical partition for which you changed the properties is inactive, the changes take effect when you next activate the partition. If the logical partition for which you changed the properties is active and is not capable of DLPAR, you must shut down and reactivate the logical partition before the changes take effect. Parent topic:  Related concepts:    |      
 Dynamically managing physical adapters You can use the  to change the physical adapters that a running logical partition uses. You can change the physical adapter settings for a logical partition at any time if the partition is capable of dynamic I/O adapter changes.  You cannot assign a physical adapter to an  partition. Because there is no physical I/O assigned to an  partition, the partition is not capable of dynamic I/O adapter changes. When making dynamic I/O adapter changes, consider the following restrictions:  You might lose data if you remove a physical adapter from a running logical partition. You cannot assign a physical adapter to another partition if it is being used by the operating system of the partition to which it is currently assigned.  If you attempt to reassign the adapter, an error message is displayed.  You must unconfigure the device by using the tools of the appropriate operating system before you can change the logical partition assignment for the adapter. Before you start, ensure that the  is at version 1.5 or later. To update the , see . To dynamically change the adapters that a running logical partition uses, complete these steps in the :  The View/Modify Partitions page is displayed.  The Partition Properties page is displayed.  If you want to make this adapter available to any client logical partition, including those not yet created, select  for the  value.  Parent topic:  Previous topic:  Next topic:  Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
 Configuring the management partition and client logical partitions You can configure virtual resources on the management partition and create the client logical partitions and partition profiles. These instructions apply to configuring a system that is managed by the  ().  Before you begin, complete the following tasks: Determine the system resource requirements for the  management partition. The system resource requirements for the management partition can depend on many factors. These factors can include the server model, the number of logical partitions you create on the managed system, and the number of virtual devices used by those logical partitions. When you install the , it automatically creates a logical partition for itself on the server. (This logical partition is called the management partition.) The  automatically assigns a fraction of the memory and processors on the server to the management partition. You can change the default amount of memory and processor resources that are assigned to the management partition. For instructions, see . Develop a plan for the storage needs of each logical partition that you are to create on your managed system. Calculate how much storage space each logical partition requires for its operating system, applications, and data. For more information about the storage requirements for each operating system, consult the operating system documentation. You can enter the activation code for  by using the . You can use the  to change the memory and processor resources on the management partition.  You can use the  () to set the maximum number of virtual resources that are available on the managed system for use by the . This value determines the maximum number of logical partitions that you can create on the managed system. To prevent potential downtime and data loss, add a second disk to the rootvg storage pool and mirror the two disks. You can configure storage on the managed system to meet the storage needs of the logical partitions that you create by using the . You can create virtual Ethernet bridges, configure a  (or Integrated Virtual Ethernet), and assign physical Ethernet adapters to client logical partitions by using the  (). You can use the  to change the physical adapters that a running logical partition uses. You can create client logical partitions on the managed system by using the Create Partitions wizard, or creating partitions based on existing partitions. Parent topic:     |      
 Installing the  Find instructions for installing the  by deploying a system plan or manually creating the logical partition and logical partition profiles and installing the  (). These instructions apply to installing the  on a system that is managed by a  (). If you plan to install the  on a system that is not managed by an , then you need to install the .  The installation procedures vary depending on the following factors: The version of  attached to the managed system on which you plan to install the .  Version 7 displays a different interface than prior versions of the .  Version 7 also provides the ability to deploy a system plan that includes the . Whether you plan to deploy a system plan that includes the  and client logical partitions. When you deploy a system plan, the  automatically performs the following tasks based on the information provided in the system plan:Creates the  logical partition and logical partition profile. Installs the  and provisions virtual resources. Creates the client logical partitions and logical partition profiles. Installs the  operating systems on client logical partitions. The  must be at V7R3.3.0, or later.  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to install the . You can create the  logical partition and logical partition profile, and you can install the  () by using the  () Version 7 Release 7.1, or later. When you reinstall the  (VIOS) that is assigned to the shared memory pool (hereafter referred to as a paging VIOS partition), you need to reconfigure the shared memory environment. For example, you might need to add the paging space devices again to the shared memory pool. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Planning for the  Use this topic to help gain an understanding of what to consider when planning for the .  You can use the  (SPT) to create a system plan that includes some basic configuration specifications for a  logical partitions. You can also use the  () to create a system plan based on an existing system configuration. This topic defines the range of configuration possibilities, including the minimum number of resources needed and the maximum number of resources allowed to create the  (). Learn about  () configuration limitations. This topic includes capacity-planning considerations for the , including information about hardware resources and limitations. Review the requirements for the system,  (VIOS), logical partitions, and paging space devices so that you can successfully configure shared memory. Redundancy options are available at several levels in the virtual I/O environment. Multipathing, mirroring, and RAID redundancy options exist for the  and some client logical partitions. Ethernet  is also an option for the client logical partitions, and the  provides  failover. There is also support for node failover () for nodes using virtual I/O resources. Review the security considerations for virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI), virtual Ethernet, and  and the additional security options available. With , you can install  in a client logical partition on a  system.  client logical partitions have unique system and storage requirements and considerations. Parent topic:          
 Specifications required to create the  This topic defines the range of configuration possibilities, including the minimum number of resources needed and the maximum number of resources allowed to create the  (). To activate the , the  is required. A logical partition with enough resources to share with other logical partitions is required. The following is a list of minimum hardware requirements that must be available to create the . Resource Requirement  The   is required to create the logical partition and assign resources. Storage adapter The server logical partition needs at least one storage adapter. Physical disk The disk must be at least 30 GB. This disk can be shared. Ethernet adapter If you want to route network traffic from virtual Ethernet adapters to a , you need an Ethernet adapter. Memory   Processor At least 0.05 processor use is required. The following table defines the limitations for storage management. Category Limit Volume groups  4096 per system  Physical volumes 1024 per volume group  Physical partitions 1024 per volume group  Logical volumes 1024 per volume group  Logical partitions No limit Parent topic:          
 Limitations and restrictions of the  configuration Learn about  () configuration limitations. Consider the following when implementing virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI):  Virtual SCSI supports the following connection standards for backing devices: Fibre Channel, SCSI, SCSI RAID, iSCSI, SAS, SATA, USB, and IDE. The SCSI protocol defines mandatory and optional commands. While virtual SCSI supports all of the mandatory commands, not all of the optional commands are supported. There may be utilization implications when using virtual SCSI devices. Because the client/server model is made up of layers of function, using virtual SCSI can consume additional processor cycles when processing I/O requests. The  is a dedicated logical partition, to be used only for  operations. Other applications cannot run in the  logical partition.  If there is a resource shortage, performance degradation might occur. If a  is serving many resources to other logical partitions, ensure that enough processor power is available. In case of high workload across virtual Ethernet adapters and virtual disks, logical partitions might experience delays in accessing resources. Logical volumes and files exported as virtual SCSI disks are always configured as single path devices on the client logical partition.  Logical volumes or files exported as virtual SCSI disks that are part of the root volume group (rootvg) are not persistent if you reinstall the . However, they are persistent if you update the  to a new service pack.  Therefore, before reinstalling the , ensure that you back up the corresponding clients' virtual disks. When exporting logical volumes, it is best to export logical volumes from a volume group other than the root volume group. When exporting files, it is best to create file storage pools and the virtual media repository in a parent storage pool other than the root volume group. Consider the following when implementing virtual adapters: Only Ethernet adapters can be shared. Other types of network adapters cannot be shared. IP forwarding is not supported on the . The maximum number of virtual adapters can be any value from 2 to 65,536.  However, if you set the maximum number of virtual adapters to a value higher than 2048, the logical partition might fail to activate or the server firmware might require more system memory to manage the virtual adapters. The  supports client logical partitions running the following operating systems on the following  processor-based servers.  processor-based servers Minimum operating system versions All  processor-based servers All  processor-based servers All  processor-based servers                        Service Pack 3  Service Pack 2            Service Pack 1      Service Pack         Service Pack    Version 6.4  Version 6.3  Version 6.2  Version 6.1            Version 6  Version 5.9  Version 5.8  Version 5.7      Version 5.6       .5 Parent topic:          
 Capacity planning This topic includes capacity-planning considerations for the , including information about hardware resources and limitations. Client logical partitions might use virtual devices, dedicated devices, or a combination of both. Before you begin to configure and install the  and client logical partitions, plan what resources each logical partition will use. Throughput requirements and overall workload must be considered when deciding whether to use virtual or dedicated devices and when allocating resources to the . Compared to dedicated Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) disks, virtual SCSI disks might achieve similar throughput numbers depending on several factors, including workload and virtual SCSI resources. However, virtual SCSI devices generally have higher processor utilization when compared with directly attached storage. Find capacity-planning and performance information for virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI). Use this section to find capacity-planning and performance information for . This section contains planning information and   performance considerations for using Shared Ethernet Adapters on the . Parent topic:          
 Planning for virtual SCSI Find capacity-planning and performance information for virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI). Different I/O subsystems have different performance qualities, as does virtual SCSI. This section discusses the performance differences between physical and virtual I/O. The following topics are described in this section: Find information about virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) latency. View information about virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) bandwidth. Understand the processor and memory-sizing considerations when implementing virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI). Parent topic:          
 Virtual SCSI latency Find information about virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) latency. I/O latency is the amount of time that passes between the initiation and completion of a disk I/O operation. For example, consider a program that performs 1000 random disk I/O operations, one at a time. If the time to complete an average operation is 6 milliseconds, the program runs in no fewer than 6 seconds. However, if the average response time is reduced to 3 milliseconds, the run time might be reduced by 3 seconds. Applications that are multithreaded or use asynchronous I/O might be less sensitive to latency, but in most circumstances, lesser latency can help improve performance. Because virtual SCSI is implemented as a client and server model, there is some  that does not exist with directly attached storage. The  might range from 0.03 to 0.06 milliseconds per I/O operation depending primarily on the block size of the request. The average  is comparable for both physical disk and logical volume-backed virtual drives. The latency experienced when using a  in a shared-processor logical partition can be higher and more variable than using a  in a dedicated logical partition. For additional information about the performance differences between dedicated logical partitions and shared-processor logical partitions, see . The following table identifies  for different block-size transmissions on both physical disk and logical-volume-backed virtual SCSI disks. Backing type 4 K 8 K 32 K 64 K 128 K Physical disk 0.032 0.033 0.033 0.040 0.061 Logical volume 0.035 0.036 0.034 0.040 0.063 The average disk-response time increases as the block size increases. The latency increases for a virtual SCSI operation are relatively greater on smaller block sizes because of their shorter response time. Parent topic:          
 Virtual SCSI sizing considerations Understand the processor and memory-sizing considerations when implementing virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI). When you are designing and implementing a virtual SCSI application environment, consider the following sizing issues: The amount of memory allocated to the  The processor entitlement of the  Whether the  is run as a shared-processor logical partition or as a dedicated processor logical partition The maximum transfer size limitation for physical devices The processor impacts of using virtual I/O on the client are insignificant. The processor cycles run on the client to perform a virtual SCSI I/O operation are comparable to that of a locally attached I/O device.  Thus, there is no increase or decrease in sizing on the client logical partition for a known task.  These sizing techniques do not anticipate combining the function of shared Ethernet with the virtual SCSI server.  If the two are combined, consider adding resources to account for the shared Ethernet activity with virtual SCSI. Virtual SCSI sizing using dedicated processor logical partitionsThe amount of processor entitlement required for a virtual SCSI server is based on the maximum I/O rates required of it. Because virtual SCSI servers do not normally run at maximum I/O rates all of the time, the use of surplus processor time is potentially wasted when using dedicated processor logical partitions. In the first of the following sizing methodologies, you need a good understanding of the I/O rates and I/O sizes required of the virtual SCSI server.  In the second, size the virtual SCSI server based on the I/O configuration. The sizing methodology used is based on the observation that the processor time required to perform an I/O operating on the virtual SCSI server is fairly constant for a given I/O size. It is a simplification to make this statement, because different device drivers have subtly varying efficiencies. However, under most circumstances, the I/O devices supported by the virtual SCSI server are sufficiently similar. The following table shows approximate cycles per second for both physical disk and logical volume operations on a 1.65 Ghz processor. These numbers are measured at the physical processor;  (SMT) operation is assumed.  For other frequencies, scaling by the ratio of the frequencies (for example, 1.5 Ghz = 1.65 Ghz / 1.5 Ghz × cycles per operation) is sufficiently accurate to produce a reasonable sizing. Disk type 4 KB 8 KB 32 KB 64 KB 128 KB Physical disk 45,000 47,000 58,000 81,000 120,000 Logical volume 49,000 51,000 59,000 74,000 105,000 Consider a  that uses three client logical partitions on physical disk-backed storage. The first client logical partition requires a maximum of 7,000 8-KB operations per second. The second client logical partition requires a maximum of 10,000 8-KB operations per second. The third client logical partition requires a maximum of 5,000 128-KB operations per second.  The number of 1.65 Ghz processors for this requirement is approximately ((7,000 × 47,000 + 10,000 × 47,000 + 5,000 × 120,000) / 1,650,000,000) = 0.85 processors, which rounds up to a single processor when using a dedicated processor logical partition. If the I/O rates of the client logical partitions are not known, you can size the  to the maximum I/O rate of the storage subsystem attached. The sizing could be biased toward small I/O operations or large I/O operations. Sizing to maximum capacity for large I/O operations will balance the processor capacity of the  to the potential I/O bandwidth of the attached I/O. The negative aspect of this sizing methodology is that, in nearly every case, more processor entitlement will be assigned to the  than it will typically consume. Consider a case in which a  manages 32 physical SCSI disks. A maximum limit of processors required can be established based on assumptions about the I/O rates that the disks can achieve. If it is known that the workload is dominated by 8096-byte operations that are random, then assume that each disk is capable of approximately 200 disk I/O operations per second (15k rpm drives). At peak, the  would need to serve approximately 32 disks × 200 I/O operations per second ×  cycles per operation, resulting in a requirement for approximately 0.19 processor performance.  Viewed another way, a  running on a single processor should be capable of supporting more than 150 disks doing 8096-byte random I/O operations. Alternatively, if the  is sized for maximum bandwidth, the calculation results in a higher processor requirement. The difference is that maximum bandwidth assumes sequential I/O. Because disks are more efficient when they are performing large, sequential I/O operations than they are when performing small, random I/O operations, a higher number of I/O operations per second can be performed. Assume that the disks are capable of 50 MB per second when doing 128 KB I/O operations. That situation implies each disk could average 390 disk I/O operations per second. Thus, the amount of processing power necessary to support 32 disks, each doing 390 I/O operations per second with an operation cost of 120,000 cycles (32 × 390 × 120,000 / 1,650,000,000) results in approximately 0.91 processors. Consequently, a  running on a single processor should be capable of driving approximately 32 fast disks to maximum throughput. Virtual SCSI server sizing using shared processor logical partitionsDefining virtual SCSI servers in shared processor logical partitions allows more specific processor resource sizing and potential recovery of unused processor time by uncapped logical partitions. However, using shared-processor logical partitions for virtual SCSI servers can frequently increase I/O response time and make for somewhat more complex processor entitlement sizings. The sizing methodology should be based on the same operation costs for dedicated logical partition I/O servers, with added entitlement for running in shared-processor logical partitions. Configure the  as uncapped, so that, if the  is undersized, there is opportunity to get more processor time to serve I/O operations. Because I/O latency with virtual SCSI can vary due to a number of conditions, consider the following if a logical partition has high I/O requirements: Configure the logical partition with physical I/O if the configuration allows.  In most cases, the  logical partition can use a shared, uncapped processor. Virtual SCSI server memory sizingMemory sizing in virtual SCSI is simplified because there is no caching of file data in the memory of the virtual SCSI server. Because there is no data caching, the memory requirements for the virtual SCSI server are fairly modest. With large I/O configurations and very high data rates, a 1 GB memory allocation for the virtual SCSI server is likely to be sufficient.  For low I/O rate situations with a small number of attached disks, 512 MB will most likely suffice. Virtual SCSI maximum transfer size limitationIf you add another virtual target device to the virtual SCSI server adapter and the new virtual target device has a smaller maximum transfer size than the other configured devices on that adapter, the  does not show a new virtual device to the client. At the time the virtual target device is created, the  displays a message stating that the new target device will not be visible to the client until you reboot the client.  To display the maximum transfer size of a physical device, use the following command: lsdev -attr max_transfer -dev hdiskN Parent topic:          
 Virtual SCSI bandwidth View information about virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) bandwidth. I/O bandwidth is the maximum amount of data that can be read or written to a storage device in a unit of time. Bandwidth can be measured from a single thread or from a set of threads running concurrently. Although many customer applications are more sensitive to latency than bandwidth, bandwidth is crucial for many typical operations, such as backing up and restoring persistent data. The following table compares the results of bandwidth tests for virtual SCSI and physical I/O performance. In the tests, a single thread operates sequentially on a constant file that is 256 MB in size with a  running in a dedicated partition. More I/O operations are issued when reading or writing to the file using a small block size as compared to a larger block size. The test was conducted using a storage server with feature code 6239 (type 5704/0625) and a 2-gigabit Fibre Channel adapter attached to one RAID0 LUN that is composed of  5 physical disks from a DS4400 disk system (formerly a FAStT700). The table shows the comparison of measured bandwidth in megabytes per second (MB/s) using virtual SCSI and local attachment for reads with varying block sizes of operations. The difference between virtual I/O and physical I/O in these tests is attributable to the increased latency when using virtual I/O. Because of the larger number of operations, the bandwidth measured with small block sizes is lesser than with large block sizes.   I/O type 4 K 8 K 32 K 64 K 128 K Virtual 20.3 35.4 82.6 106.8  124.5  Physical 24.3 41.7 90.6 114.6  132.6  Parent topic:          
 Planning for Shared Ethernet Adapters Use this section to find capacity-planning and performance information for . This section contains planning information and   performance considerations for using Shared Ethernet Adapters on the . This topic includes information you need in order to accurately size your  environment. Use this section to find the attributes and performance characteristics of various types of Ethernet adapters to help you select which adapters to use in your environment. This section contains processor-allocation guidelines for both dedicated processor logical partitions and shared processor logical partitions. Find information about memory allocation and sizing. Parent topic:          
 Network requirements This topic includes information you need in order to accurately size your  environment. To plan for using Shared Ethernet Adapters, you must determine your network needs. This section gives overview information of what should be considered when sizing the  environment. Sizing the  for the  involves the following factors: Defining the target bandwidth (MB per second), or transaction rate requirements (operations per second). The target performance of the configuration must be determined from your workload requirements. Defining the type of workload (streaming or transaction oriented). Identifying the maximum transmission unit (MTU) size that will be used (1500 or jumbo frames). Determining if the  will run in a threaded or nonthreaded environment. Knowing the throughput rates that various Ethernet adapters can provide (see Adapter selection). Knowing the processor cycles required per byte of throughput or per transaction (see Processor allocation). Bandwidth requirementThe primary consideration is determining the target bandwidth on the physical Ethernet adapter of the . This will determine the rate that data can be transferred between the  and the client logical partitions. After the target rate is known, the correct type and number of network adapters can be selected. For example, Ethernet adapters of various speeds could be used. One or more adapters could be used on individual networks, or they could be combined using . Workload typeThe type of workload to be performed must be considered, whether it is streaming of data for workloads such as file transfer, data backup, or small transaction workloads, such as remote procedure calls. The streaming workload consists of large, full-sized network packets and associated small, TCP acknowledgment packets. Transaction workloads typically involve smaller packets or might involve small requests, such as a URL, and a larger response, such as a Web page. A  will need to frequently support streaming and small packet I/O during various periods of time. In that case, approach the sizing from both models. MTU sizeThe MTU size of the network adapters must also be considered. The standard Ethernet MTU is 1500 bytes. Gigabit Ethernet and 10 gigabit Ethernet can support 9000-byte MTU jumbo frames. Jumbo frames might reduce the processor cycles for the streaming types of workloads. However, for small workloads, the larger MTU size might not help reduce processor cycles. Threaded or nonthreaded environmentUse threaded mode when virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) will be run on the same  logical partition as . Threaded mode helps ensure that virtual SCSI and the  can share the processor resource appropriately. However, threading increases instruction-path length, which uses additional processor cycles. If the  logical partition will be dedicated to running shared Ethernet devices (and associated virtual Ethernet devices) only, the adapters should be configured with threading disabled. For more information, see . Adapter throughputKnowing the throughput capability of different Ethernet adapters can help you determine which adapters to use as Shared Ethernet Adapters and how many adapters to use. For more information, see . Processor entitlementYou must determine how much processor power is required to move data through the adapters at the desired rate. Networking device drivers are typically processor-intensive. Small packets can come in at a faster rate and use more processor cycles than larger packet workloads. Larger packet workloads are typically limited by network wire bandwidth and come in at a slower rate, thus requiring less processor power than small packet workloads for the amount of data transferred. Parent topic:          
 Processor allocation This section contains processor-allocation guidelines for both dedicated processor logical partitions and shared processor logical partitions. Because Ethernet running MTU size of 1500 bytes consumes more processor cycles than Ethernet running Jumbo frames (MTU 9000),  the guidelines are different for each situation. In general, the processor utilization for large packet workloads on jumbo frames is approximately half that required for MTU 1500. If MTU is set to 1500, provide one processor (1.65 Ghz) per Gigabit Ethernet adapter to help reach maximum bandwidth. This equals ten 100-Mb Ethernet adapters if you are using smaller networks. For smaller transaction workloads, plan to use one full processor to drive the Gigabit Ethernet workload to maximum throughput. For example, if two Gigabit Ethernet adapters will be used, allocate up to two processors to the logical partition. If MTU is set to 9000 (jumbo frames), provide 50% of one processor (1.65 Ghz) per Gigabit Ethernet adapter to reach maximum bandwidth. Small packet workloads should plan to use one full processor to drive the Gigabit Ethernet workload. Jumbo frames have no effect on the small packet workload case.  using a dedicated processor logical partitionThe sizing provided is divided into two workload types: TCP streaming and TCP request and response. Both MTU 1500 and MTU 9000 networks were used in the sizing, which is provided in terms of machine cycles per byte of throughput for streaming or per transaction for request/response workloads. The data in the following tables was derived using the following formula: (number of processors ×  processor_utilization × processor clock frequency) / Throughput rate in bytes per second or transaction per second = cycles per Byte or transaction. For the purposes of this test, the numbers were measured on a logical partition with one 1.65 Ghz processor with simultaneous multi-threading (SMT) enabled. For other processor frequencies, the numbers in these tables can be scaled by the ratio of the processor frequencies for approximate values to be used for sizing. For example, for a 1.5 Ghz processor speed, use 1.65/1.5 × cycles per byte value from the table. This example would result in a value of 1.1 times the value in the table, thus requiring 10% more cycles to adjust for the 10% slower clock rate of the 1.5 Ghz processor. To use these values, multiply your required throughput rate (in bytes or transactions) by the cycles per byte value in the following tables. This result will give you the required machine cycles for the workload for a 1.65 Ghz speed. Then adjust this value by the ratio of the actual machine speed to this 1.65 Ghz speed. To find the number of processors, divide the result by 1,650,000,000 cycles (or the cycles rate if you adjusted to a different speed machine). You would need the resulting number of processors to drive the workload. For example, if the  must deliver 200 MB of streaming throughput,  the following formula would be used:  200 × 1024 × 1024 × 11.2 = 2,348,810,240 cycles / 1,650,000,000 cycles per processor = 1.42 processors.  In round numbers, it would require 1.5 processors in the  to handle this workload.  The following tables show the machine cycles per byte for a TCP-streaming workload. Type of Streaming MTU 1500 rate and processor utilization MTU 1500, cycles per byte MTU 9000 rate and processor utilization MTU 9000, cycles per byte Simplex 112.8 MB at 80.6% processor 11.2 117.8 MB at 37.7% processor 5 Duplex 162.2 MB at 88.8% processor 8.6 217 MB at 52.5% processor 3.8 Type of Streaming MTU 1500 rate and processor utilization MTU 1500, cycles per byte MTU 9000 rate and processor utilization MTU 9000, cycles per byte Simplex 112.8 MB at 66.4% processor 9.3 117.8 MB at 26.7% processor 3.6 Duplex 161.6 MB at 76.4% processor 7.4 216.8 MB at 39.6% processor 2.9 The following tables show the machine cycles per transaction for a request and response workload. A transaction is defined as a round-trip request and reply size. Size of transaction Transactions per second and  utilization MTU 1500 or 9000, cycles per transaction Small packets (64 bytes) 59,722 TPS at 83.4% processor 23,022 Large packets (1024 bytes) 51,956 TPS at 80% processor 25,406 Size of transaction Transactions per second and  utilization MTU 1500 or 9000, cycles per transaction Small packets (64 bytes) 60,249 TPS at 65.6% processor 17,956 Large packets (1024 bytes) 53,104 TPS at 65% processor 20,196  At higher workload rates, like full duplex or the request and response workloads, the threads can run longer without waiting and being redispatched. Disable the thread option if the shared Ethernet is running in a  logical partition by itself (without virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) in the same logical partition). You can enable or disable threading using the  option of the  command. To enable threading, use the -attr thread=1 option. To disable threading, use the -attr thread=0 option. For example, the following command disables threading for  ent1:  mkvdev -sea ent1 -vadapter ent5 -default ent5 -defaultid 1 -attr thread=0 Sizing a  for shared Ethernet on a shared processor logical partitionCreating a shared-processor logical partition for a  can be done if the  is running slower-speed networks (for example 10/100 Mb) and a full processor logical partition is not needed. It is recommended that this be done only if the  workload is less than half a processor or if the workload is inconsistent. Configuring the  logical partition as uncapped might also allow it to use more processor cycles as needed to handle inconsistent throughput. For example, if the network is used only when other processors are idle, the  logical partition might be able to use other machine cycles and could be created with minimal processor to handle light workload during the day but the uncapped processor could use more machine cycles at night. If you are creating a  in a shared-processor logical partition, add additional entitled processors as a sizing contingency. Parent topic:          
 Adapter selection Use this section to find the attributes and performance characteristics of various types of Ethernet adapters to help you select which adapters to use in your environment. This section provides approximate throughput rates for various Ethernet adapters set at various MTU sizes. Use this information to determine which adapters will be needed to configure a . To make this determination, you must know the desired throughput rate of the client logical partitions. Following are general guidelines for network throughput. These numbers are not specific, but they can serve as a general guideline for sizing. In the following tables, the 100 MB, 1 GB, and 10 GB speeds are rounded down for estimating. Adapter speed Approximate throughput rate 10 Mb Ethernet 1 MB/second 100 Mb Ethernet 10 MB/second 1000 Mb Ethernet  (GB Ethernet) 100 MB/second 10000 Mb Ethernet (10 GB Ethernet,  or Integrated Virtual Ethernet) 1000 MB/second Adapter speed Approximate throughput rate 10 Mb Ethernet 2 MB/second 100 Mb Ethernet 20 MB/second 1000 Mb Ethernet  (Gb Ethernet) 150 MB/second 10000 Mb Ethernet (10 Gb Ethernet,  or Integrated Virtual Ethernet) 1500 MB/second The following tables list maximum network payload speeds, which are user payload data rates that can be obtained by sockets-based programs for applications that are streaming data. The rates are a result of the network bit rate, MTU size, physical level overhead , data link headers, and TCP/IP headers. A gigahertz-speed processor is assumed. These numbers are optimal for a single LAN. If your network traffic is going through additional network devices, your results might vary. In the following tables, raw bit rate is the physical media bit rate and does not reflect interframe gaps, preamble bits, data link headers, and trailers. Interframe gaps, preamble bits, data link headers, and trailers can all reduce the effective usable bit rate of the wire. Single direction (simplex) TCP streaming rates are rates that can be achieved by sending data from one machine to another in a memory-to-memory test. Full-duplex media can usually perform slightly better than half-duplex media because the TCP acknowledgment packets can flow without contending for the same wire that the data packets are flowing on. Network type Raw bit rate (Mb) Payload rate (Mb) Payload rate (MB) 10 Mb Ethernet, Half Duplex 10 6 0.7 10 Mb Ethernet, Full Duplex 10 (20 Mb full duplex) 9.48 1.13 100 Mb Ethernet, Half Duplex 100 62 7.3 100 Mb Ethernet, Full Duplex 100 (200 Mb full duplex) 94.8 11.3 1000 Mb Ethernet, Full Duplex, MTU 1500 1000 (2000 Mb full duplex) 948 113 1000 Mb Ethernet, Full Duplex, MTU 9000 1000 (2000 Mb full duplex) 989 117.9 10000 Mb Ethernet, Full Duplex,  (or Integrated Virtual Ethernet) MTU 1500 10000 9479 1130 10000 Mb Ethernet, Full Duplex,  (or Integrated Virtual Ethernet) MTU 9000 10000 9899 1180 Full-duplex TCP streaming workloads have data streaming in both directions. Workloads that can send and receive packets concurrently can take advantage of full duplex media. Some media, for example Ethernet in half-duplex mode, cannot send and receive concurrently, thus they will not perform any better, and can usually degrade performance, when running duplex workloads. Duplex workloads will not increase at a full doubling of the rate of a simplex workload because the TCP acknowledgment packets returning from the receiver must now compete with data packets flowing in the same direction. Network type Raw bit rate (Mb) Payload rate (Mb) Payload rate (MB) 10 Mb Ethernet, Half Duplex 10 5.8 0.7 10 Mb Ethernet, Full Duplex 10 (20 Mb full duplex) 18 2.2 100 Mb Ethernet, Half Duplex 100 58 7 100 Mb Ethernet, Full Duplex 100 (200 Mb full duplex) 177 21.1 1000 Mb Ethernet, Full Duplex, MTU 1500 1000 (2000 Mb full duplex) 1470 (1660 peak) 175 (198 peak) 1000 Mb Ethernet, Full Duplex, MTU 9000 1000 (2000 Mb full duplex) 1680 (1938 peak) 200 (231 peak) 10000 Mb Ethernet,  (or Integrated Virtual Ethernet) Full Duplex, MTU 1500 10000 14680 (15099 peak) 1750 (1800 peak) 10000 Mb Ethernet,  (or Integrated Virtual Ethernet) Full Duplex, MTU 9000 10000 16777 (19293 pack) 2000 (2300 peak) Notes:Peak numbers represent optimal throughput with multiple TCP sessions running in each direction. Other rates are for a single TCP session. 1000 MB Ethernet (gigabit Ethernet) duplex rates are for the PCI-X adapter in PCI-X slots. Data rates are for TCP/IP using the IPv4 protocol. Adapters with MTU set to 9000 have RFC 1323 enabled.   Parent topic:          
 Memory allocation Find information about memory allocation and sizing. In general, 512 MB of memory per logical partition is sufficient for most configurations. Enough memory must be allocated for the  data structures. Ethernet adapters and virtual devices use dedicated receive buffers. These buffers are used to store the incoming packets, which are then sent over the outgoing device.  A physical Ethernet adapter typically uses 4 MB for MTU 1500 or 16 MB for MTU 9000 for dedicated receive buffers for gigabit Ethernet. Other Ethernet adapters are similar. Virtual Ethernet, typically uses 6 MB for dedicated receive buffers. However, this number can vary based on workload. Each instance of a physical or virtual Ethernet would need memory for this number of buffers. In addition, the system has an mbuf buffer pool per processor that is used if additional buffers are needed.  These mbufs typically occupy 40 MB. Parent topic:          
 Security considerations Review the security considerations for virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI), virtual Ethernet, and  and the additional security options available.   allow cross-partition device sharing and communication. Functions such as dynamic LPAR, shared processors, virtual networking, virtual storage, and workload management all require facilities to ensure that system-security requirements are met. Cross-partition and virtualization features are designed to not introduce any security exposure beyond what is implied by the function. For example, a virtual LAN connection would have the same security considerations as a physical network connection. Carefully consider how to utilize cross-partition virtualization features in high-security environments. Any visibility between logical partitions must be manually created through administrative system-configuration choices.  However, instead of SCSI or fiber cable, the connection for this functionality is done by the firmware. The virtual SCSI device drivers of the  and the firmware ensure that only the system administrator of the  has control over which logical partitions can access data on  storage devices. For example, a client logical partition that has access to a logical volume lv001 exported by the  logical partition cannot access lv002, even if it is in the same volume group.  Similar to virtual SCSI, the firmware also provides the connection between logical partitions when using virtual Ethernet. The firmware provides the Ethernet switch functionality. The connection to the external network is provided by the  function on the . This part of the  acts as a layer-2 bridge to the physical adapters. A VLAN ID tag is inserted into every Ethernet frame. The Ethernet switch restricts the frames to the ports that are authorized to receive frames with that VLAN ID. Every port on an Ethernet switch can be configured to be a member of several VLANs. Only the network adapters, both virtual and physical, that are connected to a port (virtual or physical) that belongs to the same VLAN can receive the frames. The implementation of this VLAN standard ensures that the logical partitions cannot access restricted data. Parent topic:          
 Limitations and restrictions for  client logical partitions With , you can install  in a client logical partition on a  system.  client logical partitions have unique system and storage requirements and considerations. The following limitations and restrictions apply to  client logical partitions of the  that are running on -managed systems.  client logical partitions that run on systems that are managed by the  have additional limitations and restrictions.  Hardware and software prerequisitesThe managed system must be one of the following servers: The  must be at Version 2.1.2.11 or later.  must be at 6.1.1 or later. I/O, storage, and networking limitations for virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adaptersThe  client logical partition can have up to 32 virtual SCSI devices under a single virtual adapter. It can have up to 16 disk units (logical volumes, physical volumes, or files) and up to 16 optical units. The maximum virtual disk size is 2 TB minus 512 bytes. If you are limited to 1 adapter and you have a storage requirement of 32 TB, for example, you might need to make your virtual disks the maximum size of 2 TB. However, in general, consider spreading the storage over multiple virtual disks with smaller capacities. This can help improve concurrency. Mirroring and multipath through up to 8  partitions is the redundancy option for client logical partitions. However, you also can use multipathing and RAID on the  for redundancy. It is required that you assign the tape device to its own  adapter, as tape devices often send large amounts of data, which might affect the performance of any other device on the adapter. Virtual Fibre Channel limitations The  client partition supports up to 128 target port connections per virtual fibre channel adapter.  The  client partition supports up to 64 SCSI devices per virtual Fibre Channel adapter. The 64 SCSI devices can be any combination of disk units or tape libraries. With tape libraries, each control path is counted as a unique SCSI device in addition to a single SCSI device per tape drive.  For  client partitions, the LUNs of the physical storage connected with NPIV require a storage-specific device driver and do not use the generic virtual SCSI device driver.  The  client partition supports up to eight multipath connections to a single fibre channel disk unit. Each multipath connection can be made with a virtual Fibre Channel adapter or with Fibre Channel I/O adapter hardware that is assigned to the  partition. Each virtual Fibre Channel adapter in an  client partition must connect to a different physical Fibre Channel port. Connecting more than one virtual Fibre Channel adapter in the same client logical partition to a single physical Fibre Channel adapter port in the Virtual I/O Server is not supported.  Parent topic:          
 Limitations and restrictions for  client partitions on systems managed by the  With the  () version 2.1.2 and later, you can install  in a client partition.  client partitions have unique system, storage, networking, and operating system requirements and considerations. The following limitations and restrictions apply to  client logical partitions of the  that are running on systems that are managed by the .  client logical partitions that run on  managed systems have fewer limitations and restrictions.  General notes client logical partitions do not own any physical I/O resources. All I/O resources on the  client logical partition are virtual Ethernet and virtual storage  The  client logical partition has no view of the physical hardware. This affects how certain commands can operate, the amount of data returned by existing CL commands, APIs, and MI instructions, and how you can perform some  operations, such as servicing the logical partition. Hardware and software prerequisitesThe managed system must be one of the servers as follows:            For a complete overview and instructions for running  on a server, see the . Support for  requires  version 1.5 or later. Support for virtual tape requires  version 2.1.0 or later, and support for virtual Fibre Channel requires  version 2.1.2 or later. I/O, storage, and networking limitationsYou cannot assign any physical I/O resources to  client partitions, including the following: Host Connect adapter Virtual OptiConnect High-Speed link (HSL) OptiConnect Instead, the  () management partition manages the physical I/O resources and provides virtual I/O resources to the client partitions. Virtual SCSI is the storage protocol available to  client partitions.  The virtual optical devices can map to physical DVD drives or to files. The  client partition can have up to 32 virtual SCSI devices under a single virtual adapter. It can have up to 16 disk units (logical volumes, physical volumes, or files) and up to 16 optical units. The maximum virtual disk size is 2 TB. If you are limited to one adapter and you have a storage requirement of 32 TB, for example, you might need to make your virtual disks the maximum size of 2 TB. In general, consider spreading the storage over multiple virtual disks with smaller capacities. This practice can help improve concurrency. Mirroring is the redundancy option for  client partitions. However, you can use multipathing and RAID on the  for redundancy. The communications protocol available to  client partitions is virtual Ethernet. Technologies that are not supported on  client partitionsHigh availability by using switched disk Virtual OptiConnect Cryptographic coprocessors IBM Facsimile for  licensed program You can use the IBM Universal Manageability Enablement for  licensed program on  client partitions, with limitations. For details, see . Differences in  operationsBecause the  () management partition manages the physical hardware instead of , some APIs, machine instructions, and CL, dedicated service tools (DST), and system service tools (SST) commands are not available to  client partitions. Also, the Disk Management graphical user interface enforces some restrictions. If you want to configure Electronic Customer Support (ECS) or Electronic Service Agent™ (ESA), use a virtual Ethernet connection such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). You cannot use a modem or dial-up connection. If you plan to use Operations Console to manage , consider the following points:You must configure a local console on a network (LAN). You cannot configure a local console directly attached to the server (with or without remote access allowed) and you cannot configure a remote console through dial-up support. You must configure virtual Ethernet bridging on the . You can perform main storage dumps in one of the following ways:You can write the data to virtual tape that is backed by a physical tape device. You can write the data to storage, copy it to virtual tape that is backed by files from the integrated file system, and then send it to IBM service and support by using FTP. You can write the data to virtual file-backed optical, transfer the data to physical tape, and then send the physical tape to IBM service and support. You can back up  in one of the following ways:You can write the data to virtual tape that is backed by files from the  integrated file system, and then send it to another system by using FTP. You can write the data to virtual tape that is backed by a physical tape device.  You can write the data to a file-backed virtual optical device in the management partition, and then save the data to physical tape by using the  command.   Backing up  to optical devices (including file-backed optical devices) is typically slower than backing up  to physical tape. Because the installation media for  is greater than 2 GB, you must use the command line to upload the  installation media to the management partition as follows:Open a virtual terminal session to the  command-line interface.   Run the following command:mkvopt -name MediaName -file FileName -ro  Where:MediaName is the name of the media that you plan to upload to the management partition. For example, v5r5m0drv250.002. FileName is the name of the file that you plan to upload to the management partition. For example, v5r5m0-drv250.002.iso. Confirm that the media uploaded successfully by clicking the  tab in the View/Modify Virtual Storage window to view the media. Parent topic:     |      
 Limitations and restrictions for  client logical partitions With , you can install  in a client logical partition on a  system.  client logical partitions have unique system and storage requirements and considerations. The following limitations and restrictions apply to  client logical partitions of the  that are running on -managed systems.  client logical partitions that run on systems that are managed by the  have additional limitations and restrictions.  Hardware and software prerequisitesThe managed system must be one of the following servers: The  must be at Version 2.1.2.11 or later.  must be at 6.1.1 or later. I/O, storage, and networking limitations for virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adaptersThe  client logical partition can have up to 32 virtual SCSI devices under a single virtual adapter. It can have up to 16 disk units (logical volumes, physical volumes, or files) and up to 16 optical units. The maximum virtual disk size is 2 TB minus 512 bytes. If you are limited to 1 adapter and you have a storage requirement of 32 TB, for example, you might need to make your virtual disks the maximum size of 2 TB. However, in general, consider spreading the storage over multiple virtual disks with smaller capacities. This can help improve concurrency. Mirroring and multipath through up to 8  partitions is the redundancy option for client logical partitions. However, you also can use multipathing and RAID on the  for redundancy. It is required that you assign the tape device to its own  adapter, as tape devices often send large amounts of data, which might affect the performance of any other device on the adapter. Virtual Fibre Channel limitations The  client partition supports up to 128 target port connections per virtual fibre channel adapter.  The  client partition supports up to 64 SCSI devices per virtual Fibre Channel adapter. The 64 SCSI devices can be any combination of disk units or tape libraries. With tape libraries, each control path is counted as a unique SCSI device in addition to a single SCSI device per tape drive.  For  client partitions, the LUNs of the physical storage connected with NPIV require a storage-specific device driver and do not use the generic virtual SCSI device driver.  The  client partition supports up to eight multipath connections to a single fibre channel disk unit. Each multipath connection can be made with a virtual Fibre Channel adapter or with Fibre Channel I/O adapter hardware that is assigned to the  partition. Each virtual Fibre Channel adapter in an  client partition must connect to a different physical Fibre Channel port. Connecting more than one virtual Fibre Channel adapter in the same client logical partition to a single physical Fibre Channel adapter port in the Virtual I/O Server is not supported.  Parent topic:          
  and  commands This topic collection includes command reference information for the  and the . Read about new or significantly changed information in  () since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF of the . This topic contains links to information about the  and  commands, including syntax statements, flag descriptions, and usage examples. Commands are listed alphabetically. This topic contains links to information about the  and  commands, including syntax statements, flag descriptions, and usage examples. Commands are listed by category.         
 Connecting to the  command-line interface Learn how to connect to the  command-line interface, which allows you to use commands for the . Connect to the  command-line interface by using one of the following methods:Open a virtual terminal session to the management partition Telnet You can use Telnet to connect to the command-line interface. Telnet does not provide a secure connection to the . Therefore, use Telnet only if the Ethernet adapter that you have configured to access the management partition is physically isolated from networks that are not secure. OpenSSL or Portable OpenSSH You can use OpenSSL or Portable SSH to securely connect to the  from a remote location.  Parent topic:     |      
 Connecting to the  by using OpenSSH You can set up remote connections to the  using secure connections. You can use the Open Source Secure Sockets Layer (OpenSSL) and Portable Secure Shell (OpenSSH) software to connect to the  using secure connections. For more information about OpenSSL and OpenSSH, see the  and  Web sites. To connect to the  using OpenSSH, complete the following tasks:  If you are using Version 1.3.0 or later, then connect using either an interactive or noninteractive shell. If you are using a version prior to 1.3.0, then connect using only an interactive shell.To connect using an interactive shell, type the following command from the command line of a remote system:ssh username@vioshostname  where username is your user name for the  and vioshostname is the name of the . To connect using a noninteractive shell, run the following command:ssh username@vioshostname command  Where: username is your user name for the . vioshostname is the name of the . command is the command that you want to run. For example, ioscli lsmap -all.  When using a noninteractive shell, remember to use the full command form (including the ioscli prefix) for all  commands.  If you are using Version 1.3.0 or later, then authenticate using either passwords or keys. If you are using a version prior to 1.3.0, then authenticate using only passwords.To authenticate using passwords, enter your user name and password when prompted by the SSH client. To authenticate using keys, perform the following steps on the SSH client's operating system:Create a directory called  to store the keys. You can use RSA or DSA keys. Run the  command to generate public and private keys. For example, ssh-keygen -t  rsa This creates the following files in the  directory:Private key: id_rsa  Public key: id_rsa.pub Run the following command to append the public key to the authorized_keys2 file on the :cat $HOME/.ssh/public_key_file | ssh username@vioshostname tee -a /home/username/.ssh/authorized_keys2 Where:public_key_file is the public key file that is generated in the previous step. For example, id_rsa.pub. username is your user name for the . vioshostname is the name of the . The  might not include the latest version of OpenSSH or OpenSSL with each release. In addition, there might be OpenSSH or OpenSSL updates released in between  releases. In these situations, you can update OpenSSH and OpenSSL on the  by downloading and installing OpenSSH and OpenSSL. For instructions, see . Parent topic:          
 Downloading, installing, and updating OpenSSH and OpenSSL If you are using a  version prior to 1.3, you must download and install OpenSSH and OpenSSL software before you can connect to the  using OpenSSH. You can also use this procedure to update OpenSSH and OpenSSL on the . OpenSSH and OpenSSL might need to be updated on your  if the  did not include the latest version of OpenSSH or OpenSSL, or if there were OpenSSH or OpenSSL updates released in between  releases. In these situations, you can update OpenSSH and OpenSSL on the  by downloading and installing OpenSSH and OpenSSL using the following procedure. For more information about OpenSSL and OpenSSH, see the  and  Web sites. Downloading the Open Source software The OpenSSL software contains the encrypted library that is required to use the OpenSSH software. To download the software, complete the following tasks:     Alternatively, you can install the software from the  Expansion Pack.  For example, to create an installation directory named install_ssh, run the following command: mkdir install_ssh.    Install the Open Source software on the  To install the software, complete the following steps:  The installation program automatically starts the Secure Shell daemon (sshd) on the server.    The sftp command is not supported on versions of  earlier than 1.3.  Noninteractive shells are not supported using OpenSSH with the  versions earlier than 1.3.         
 Security on the  Become familiar with the  security features. Beginning with Version 1.3 of the , you can set security options that provide tighter security controls over your  environment. These options allow you to select a level of system security hardening and specify the settings allowable within that level. The  security feature also allows you to control network traffic by enabling the  firewall. You can configure these options using the  command.  Using the  command, you can set, change, and view current security settings. By default, no  security levels are set. You must run the  command to change the settings.  The following sections provide an overview of these features.  system security hardeningThe system security hardening feature protects all elements of a system by tightening security or implementing a higher level of security. Although hundreds of security configurations are possible with the  security settings, you can easily implement security controls by specifying a high, medium, or low security level. Using the system security hardening features provided by , you can specify values such as the following:Password policy settings Actions such as usrck, pwdck, grpck, and sysck Default file-creation settings Settings included in the  command Configuring a system at too high a security level might deny services that are needed. For example, telnet and rlogin are disabled for high level security because the login password is sent over the network unencrypted. If a system is configured at too low a security level, the system might be vulnerable to security threats. Since each enterprise has its own unique set of security requirements, the predefined High, Medium, and Low security configuration settings are best suited as a starting point for security configuration rather than an exact match for the security requirements of a particular enterprise. As you become more familiar with the security settings, you can make adjustments by choosing the hardening rules you want to apply. You can get information about the hardening rules by running the  command.  firewallUsing the  firewall, you can enforce limitations on IP activity in your virtual environment. With this feature, you can specify which ports and network services are allowed access to the  system. For example, if you need to restrict login activity from an unauthorized port, you can specify the port name or number and specify deny to remove it from the allow list. You can also restrict a specific IP address.  You can set up remote connections to the  using secure connections. Set the security level to specify security hardening rules for your  system. Enable the  firewall to control IP activity. You can configure a Kerberos client on the  to enhance security in communications across the Internet. With  Version 2.2, and later, a system administrator can define roles based on job functions in an organization by using role-based access control (RBAC). You can create, list, change, switch, and remove users by using . Parent topic:          
 Configuring  system security hardening Set the security level to specify security hardening rules for your  system. To implement system security hardening rules, you can use the  command to specify a security level of high, medium, or low. A default set of rules is defined for each level. You can also set a level of default, which returns the system to the system standard settings and removes any level settings that have been applied.  The low level security settings are a subset of the medium level security settings, which are a subset of the high level security settings. Therefore, the high level is the most restrictive and provides the greatest level of control. You can apply all of the rules for a specified level or select which rules to activate for your environment. By default, no  security levels are set; you must run the  command to modify the settings. Use the following tasks to configure the system security settings. Parent topic:  Setting a security level  For example:viosecure -level low -apply Changing the settings in a security level  For example:At the  command line, type viosecure -level high. All the security level options (hardening rules) at that level are displayed ten at a time (pressing Enter displays the next set in the sequence).  Review the options displayed and make your selection by entering the numbers, separated by a comma, that you want to apply, or type  to apply all the options or  to apply none of the options.  Press  to display the next set of options, and continue entering your selections. To exit the command without making any changes, type .  Viewing the current security setting  For example: viosecure -view Removing security level settings         
 Configuring  firewall settings Enable the  firewall to control IP activity. The  firewall is not enabled by default. To enable the  firewall, you must turn it on by using the  command with the  option. When you enable it, the default setting is activated, which allows access for the following IP services:ftp ftp-data ssh web https rmc cimom  The firewall settings are contained in the file viosecure.ctl in the  directory. If for some reason the viosecure.ctl file does not exist when you run the command to enable the firewall, you receive an error. You can use the  option to enable the standard firewall default ports. You can use the default setting or configure the firewall settings to meet the needs of your environment by specifying which ports or port services to allow. You can also turn off the firewall to deactivate the settings.  Use the following tasks at the  command line to configure the  firewall settings:  viosecure -firewall on  viosecure -firwall allow | deny -port number  viosecure -firewall view  viosecure -firewall off Parent topic:          
 Configuring a Kerberos client on the  You can configure a Kerberos client on the  to enhance security in communications across the Internet. Before you start, ensure that the  Version 1.5 or later.  Kerberos is a network authentication protocol that provides authentication for client and server applications by using a secret-key cyrptography. It negotiates authenticated, and optionally encrypted, communications between two points anywhere on the Internet. Kerberos authentication generally works as follows:  A Kerberos client sends a request for a ticket to the Key Distribution Center (KDC). The KDC creates a ticket-granting ticket (TGT) for the client and encrypts it using the client's password as the key.  The KDC returns the encrypted TGT to the client. The client attempts to decrypt the TGT, using its password.  If the client successfully decrypts the TGT (for example, if the client gives the correct password), the client keeps the decrypted TGT. The TGT indicates proof of the client's identity.  mkkrb5clnt -c KDC_server -r realm_name \ -s Kerberos_server -d Kerberos_client Where:KDC_server is the name of the KDC server. realm_name is the name of the realm to which you want to configure the Kerberos client. Kerberos_server is the fully qualified host name of the Kerberos server. Kerberos_client is the domain name of the Kerberos client. For example:mkkrb5clnt -c bob.kerberso.com -r KERBER.COM \ -s bob.kerberso.com -d testbox.com In this example, you configure the Kerberos client, testbox.com, to the Kerberos server, bob.kerberso.com. The KDC is running on bob.kerberso.com. Parent topic:          
 Updating the  To install an update to the , you can obtain the update either from a CD that contains the update or download the update.  To update the , follow these steps:  updateios -install -accept -dev /home/padmin/update  The  command installs all updates located in the specified directory. The  () Version 2.2.0.11, Fix Pack 24, Service Pack 1, or later, does not support the -reject option of the  command. To perform  after you install an update to the , ensure that you restart the  (). Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Backing up the  You can back up the  (VIOS) and user-defined virtual devices using the  command .  The VIOS contains the following types of information that you need to back up: the VIOS itself and user-defined virtual devices. The VIOS includes the base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata. All this information is backed up when you use the  command. User-defined virtual devices include metadata, like virtual devices mappings, that define the relationship between the physical environment and the virtual environment. You can back up user-defined virtual devices in one of the following ways:You can back up user-defined virtual devices by using the  command. Use this option in situations where you plan to restore the configuration information to the same VIOS partition from which it was backed up. You can back up user-defined virtual devices by saving the data to a location that is automatically backed up when you use the  command to back up the VIOS. Use this option in situations where you plan to restore the VIOS to a new or different system. (For example, in the event of a system failure or disaster.) Furthermore, in these situations, you must also back up the following components of your environment. Back up these components to fully recover your VIOS configuration:External device configurations, such as storage area network (SAN) devices. Resources defined on the  (), such as processor and memory allocations. In other words, back up your  partition profile data for the VIOS and its client partitions. The operating systems and applications running in the client logical partitions. You can back up and restore the VIOS as follows. Backup method Media Restoration method To tape Tape From tape To DVD DVD-RAM From DVD To remote file system nim_resources.tar image From an  using the Network Installation Management (NIM) on  facility and the  command To remote file system  image From an  NIM server and a standard  system installation  image  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to back up the . You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to tape. You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to DVD. You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to a remote file system by creating a nim_resources.tar file. You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to a remote file system by creating a mksysb file. You can back up user-defined virtual devices by saving the data to a location that is automatically backed up when you use the  command to back up the  (VIOS).  You can schedule regular backups of the  (VIOS) and user-defined virtual devices to ensure that your backup copy accurately reflects the current configuration. You can use the  to automatically back up the  on regular intervals, or you can perform incremental backups. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Backing up the  to tape You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to tape. If the system is managed by the , then you need to back up your partition profile data for the management partition and its clients before you back up the . . (Alternatively, you can use the  command.)  To back up the  to tape, follow these steps:  lsdev -type tape If the tape device is in the Defined state, type the following command, where dev is the name of your tape device: cfgdev -dev dev  backupios -tape tape_device  This command creates a bootable tape that you can use to restore the .  For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Backing up and restoring partition data Use the  to back up or restore the partition configuration information about your managed system. You can download an existing backup of the partition configuration, generate a new backup, upload a saved backup, or restore the existing backup. To back up or restore partition data, complete the following steps:  The Backup/Restore page is displayed, which includes the  tab, the  tab, . You can use the  version 1.5.1.1 to back up and restore virtual optical media files and files in your user  directory. For more information, see  and . Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
 Backing up the  You can back up the  (VIOS) and user-defined virtual devices using the  command .  The VIOS contains the following types of information that you need to back up: the VIOS itself and user-defined virtual devices. The VIOS includes the base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata. All this information is backed up when you use the  command. User-defined virtual devices include metadata, like virtual devices mappings, that define the relationship between the physical environment and the virtual environment. You can back up user-defined virtual devices in one of the following ways:You can back up user-defined virtual devices by using the  command. Use this option in situations where you plan to restore the configuration information to the same VIOS partition from which it was backed up. You can back up user-defined virtual devices by saving the data to a location that is automatically backed up when you use the  command to back up the VIOS. Use this option in situations where you plan to restore the VIOS to a new or different system. (For example, in the event of a system failure or disaster.) Furthermore, in these situations, you must also back up the following components of your environment. Back up these components to fully recover your VIOS configuration:External device configurations, such as storage area network (SAN) devices. Resources defined on the  (), such as processor and memory allocations. In other words, back up your  partition profile data for the VIOS and its client partitions. The operating systems and applications running in the client logical partitions. You can back up and restore the VIOS as follows. Backup method Media Restoration method To tape Tape From tape To DVD DVD-RAM From DVD To remote file system nim_resources.tar image From an  using the Network Installation Management (NIM) on  facility and the  command To remote file system  image From an  NIM server and a standard  system installation  image  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to back up the . You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to tape. You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to DVD. You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to a remote file system by creating a nim_resources.tar file. You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to a remote file system by creating a mksysb file. You can back up user-defined virtual devices by saving the data to a location that is automatically backed up when you use the  command to back up the  (VIOS).  You can schedule regular backups of the  (VIOS) and user-defined virtual devices to ensure that your backup copy accurately reflects the current configuration. You can use the  to automatically back up the  on regular intervals, or you can perform incremental backups. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Backing up the  to one or more DVDs You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to DVD. If the system is managed by the , then you need to back up your partition profile data for the management partition and its clients before you back up the . . (Alternatively, you can use the  command.)  To back up the  to one or more DVDs, follow these steps. Only DVD-RAM media can be used to back up the .  Vendor disk drives might support burning to additional disk types, such as CD-RW and DVD-R. Refer to the documentation for your drive to determine which disk types are supported.  lsdev -type optical If the device is in the Defined state, type: cfgdev -dev dev   backupios -cd /dev/cd0  If the  does not fit on one DVD, then the  command provides instructions for disk replacement and removal until all the volumes have been created.  This command creates one or more bootable DVDs that you can use to restore the .  For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Backing up user-defined virtual devices  In addition to backing up the  (VIOS), you must back up user-defined virtual devices (such as virtual device mappings) in case you have a system failure or disaster.  User-defined virtual devices include metadata, such as virtual device mappings, that define the relationship between the physical environment and the virtual environment. In situations where you plan to restore the VIOS to a new or different system, you need to back up both the VIOS and user-defined virtual devices. (For example, in the event of a system failure or disaster.) Before you start, complete the following tasks: Back up the VIOS to tape, DVD, or a remote file system. For instructions, see one of the following procedures:  Decide whether you want to create a script of the following procedure. Scripting these commands makes it easy to schedule automated backups of the information.  To back up user-defined virtual devices, complete the following steps:  lsvg  activatevg volume_group  where volume_group is the name of the volume group (or storage pool) that you want to activate.  savevgstruct volume_group  where volume_group is the name of the volume group (or storage pool) that you want to back up. This command writes a backup of the structure of a volume group (and therefore a storage pool) to the  directory.  command | tee /home/padmin/filename  Where: command is the command that produces the information you want to save.  filename is the name of the file to which you want to save the information. Command Description cfgnamesrv -ls Shows all system configuration database entries related to domain name server information used by local resolver routines. entstat -all devicename devicename is the name of a device whose attributes or statistics you want to save. Run this command for each device whose attributes or statistics you want to save. Shows Ethernet driver and device statistics for the device specified. hostmap -ls Shows all entries in the system configuration database. ioslevel Shows the current maintenance level of the . lsdev -dev devicename -attr devicename is the name of a device whose attributes or statistics you want to save. Run this command for each device whose attributes or statistics you want to save. Shows the attributes of the device specified. lsdev -type adapter Shows information about physical and logical adapters. lsuser Shows a list of all attributes of all the system users. netstat -routinfo Shows the routing tables, including the user-configured and current costs of each route. netstat -state Shows the state of all configured interfaces. optimizenet -list Shows characteristics of all network tuning parameters, including the current and reboot value, range, unit, type, and dependencies. viosecure -firewall view Shows a list of allowed ports. viosecure -view -nonint Shows all the security level settings for noninteractive mode. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Backing up the  to a remote file system by creating a nim_resources.tar file You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to a remote file system by creating a nim_resources.tar file.  Backing up the  to a remote file system will create the nim_resources.tar image in the directory you specify. The nim_resources.tar file contains all the necessary resources to restore the , including the mksysb image, the bosinst.data file, the network boot image, and Shared Product Object Tree (SPOT) resource. The  command empties the target_disks_stanza section of bosinst.data and sets RECOVER_DEVICES=Default. This allows the mksysb file generated by the command to be cloned to another logical partition. If you plan to use the nim_resources.tar image to install to a specific disk, then you need to repopulate the target_disk_stanza section of bosinst.data and replace this file in the nim_resources.tar image. All other parts of the nim_resources.tar image must remain unchanged.  Before you start, complete the following tasks: If the system is managed by the , then you need to back up your partition profile data for the management partition and its clients before you back up the . . (Alternatively, you can use the  command.) Ensure that the remote file system is available and mounted. Ensure that the  has root write access to the server on which the backup will be created.  To back up the  to a remote file system, follow these steps:  mkdir /home/backup  mount server1:/export/ios_backup /home/backup  backupios -file /home/backup  This command creates a nim_resources.tar file that you can use to restore the  from the .  For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Backing up the  to a remote file system by creating a mksysb image You can back up the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata to a remote file system by creating a mksysb file. Backing up the  to a remote file system will create the mksysb image in the directory you specify. The mksysb image is an installable image of the root volume group in a file. Before you start, complete the following tasks: If the system is managed by the , then you need to back up your partition profile data for the management partition and its clients before you back up the . . (Alternatively, you can use the  command.) If you plan to restore the  from a Network Installation Management (NIM) server, verify that the NIM server is at the latest release of .  Ensure that the remote file system is available and mounted. Ensure that the  has root write access to the server on which the backup will be created.  To back up the  to a remote file system, follow these steps:  mkdir /home/backup  mount server1:/export/ios_backup /home/backup where server1 is the NIM server from which you plan to restore the .  backupios -file /home/backup/filename.mksysb -mksysb where filename is the name of mksysb image that this command creates in the specified directory. You can use the mksysb image to restore the  from a NIM server.  For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Backing up user-defined virtual devices You can back up user-defined virtual devices by saving the data to a location that is automatically backed up when you use the  command to back up the  (VIOS).  User-defined virtual devices include metadata, such as virtual device mappings, that define the relationship between the physical environment and the virtual environment. You can back up user-defined virtual devices in one of the following ways: You can back up user-defined virtual devices by saving the data to a location that is automatically backed up when you use the  command to back up the VIOS. Use this option in situations where you plan to restore the VIOS to a new or different system. (For example, in the event of a system failure or disaster.) You can back up user-defined virtual devices by using the  command. Use this option in situations where you plan to restore the configuration information to the same VIOS partition from which it was backed up. In addition to backing up the  (VIOS), you must back up user-defined virtual devices (such as virtual device mappings) in case you have a system failure or disaster.  You can back up user-defined virtual devices by using the  command. Use the  command when you plan to restore the information to the same  (VIOS) logical partition from which it was backed up. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Backing up user-defined virtual devices by using the  command You can back up user-defined virtual devices by using the  command. Use the  command when you plan to restore the information to the same  (VIOS) logical partition from which it was backed up. You can use the  command to back up all the relevant data to recover a VIOS after an installation. The  command backs up all the device properties and the virtual devices configuration on the VIOS. You can include information about some or all of the following devices in the backup: Logical devices, such as storage pools, file-backed storage pools, the virtual media repository, and paging space devices. Virtual devices, such as Etherchannel, , virtual server adapters, and virtual-server Fibre Channel adapters. Device attributes for devices like disks, optical devices, tape devices, fscsi controllers, Ethernet adapters, Ethernet interfaces, and logical Host Ethernet Adapters. Before you start, run the  command to verify that the VIOS is at Version 2.1.2.0, or later.  viosbr -backup –file /tmp/myserverbackup  where /tmp/myserverbackup is the file to which you want to back up the configuration information. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Restoring user-defined virtual devices by using the  command You can restore user-defined virtual devices by using the  command. Use the  command when you plan to restore the information to the same  (VIOS) logical partition from which it was backed up. The  command restores the VIOS partition to the same state in which it was when the backup was taken. With the information available from the backup, the command performs the following actions:  Sets the attribute values for physical devices, such as controllers, adapters, disks, optical devices, tape devices, and Ethernet interfaces. Imports logical devices, such as volume groups or storage pools, logical volumes, file systems, and repositories. Creates virtual devices and their corresponding mappings for devices like Etherchannel, , virtual target devices, virtual Fibre Channel adapters, and paging space devices. Before you start, complete the following tasks: Run the  command to verify that the VIOS is at Version 2.1.2.0, or later. Determine the backup file that you want to restore. The backup file must be a file that was created by using the  command. Verify that the VIOS partition to which you plan to restore the information is the same VIOS partition from which it was backed up.  viosbr -restore  –file /home/padmin/cfgbackups/myserverbackup.002.tar.gz where /home/padmin/cfgbackups/myserverbackup.002.tar.gz is the backup file that contains the information that you want to restore. The system displays information like the following output: Backed up Devices that are unable to restore/change ================================================== <Name(s) of non-deployed devices> DEPLOYED or CHANGED devices: ============================ Dev name during BACKUP                  Dev name after RESTORE -----------------------------           ------------------------------ <Name(s) of deployed devices> Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Restoring user-defined virtual devices You can restore user-defined virtual devices on the  (VIOS) by restoring volume groups and manually re-creating virtual device mappings.  User-defined virtual devices include metadata, such as virtual device mappings, that define the relationship between the physical environment and the virtual environment. You can restore user-defined virtual devices in one of the following ways: You can restore user-defined virtual devices by restoring volume groups and manually re-creating virtual device mappings. Use this option in situations where you plan to restore the VIOS to a new or different system. (For example, use this option in the event of a system failure or disaster.) You can restore user-defined virtual devices by using the  command. Use this option in situations where you plan to restore the configuration information to the same VIOS partition from which it was backed up. In addition to restoring the  (VIOS), you might need to restore user-defined virtual devices (such as virtual device mappings). For example, in the event of a system failure, system migration, or disaster, you need to restore both the VIOS and user-defined virtual devices.  You can restore user-defined virtual devices by using the  command. Use the  command when you plan to restore the information to the same  (VIOS) logical partition from which it was backed up. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Restoring user-defined virtual devices  In addition to restoring the  (VIOS), you might need to restore user-defined virtual devices (such as virtual device mappings). For example, in the event of a system failure, system migration, or disaster, you need to restore both the VIOS and user-defined virtual devices.  User-defined virtual devices include metadata, such as virtual device mappings, that define the relationship between the physical environment and the virtual environment. In situations where you plan to restore the VIOS to a new or different system, you need to back up both the VIOS and user-defined virtual devices. (For example, in the event of a system failure or disaster, you must restore both the VIOS and user-defined virtual devices.) Before you start, restore the VIOS from tape, DVD, or a remote file system. For instructions, see one of the following procedures: To restore user-defined virtual devices, complete the following steps:  restorevgstruct -ls  This command lists the files located in the  directory.  restorevgstruct -vg volumegroup hdiskx  Where:volumegroup is the name of a volume group (or storage pool) from step 1. hdiskx is the name of an empty disk from step 2. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Restoring the  from tape You can restore the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata from tape. If the system is managed by the , then you need to restore your partition profile data for the management partition and its clients before you restore the . . (Alternatively, you can use the  command.)   To restore the  from tape, follow these steps:  For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Restoring the  You can restore the  () and user-defined virtual devices using the  command, , . The VIOS contains the following types of information that you need to restore: the VIOS itself and user-defined virtual devices. The VIOS includes the base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata. All this information is restored when you use the  command.  User-defined virtual devices include metadata, such as virtual devices mappings, that define the relationship between the physical environment and the virtual environment. You can restore user-defined virtual devices in one of the following ways:You can restore user-defined virtual devices by using the  command. Use this option in situations where you plan to restore the configuration information to the same VIOS partition from which it was backed up. You can restore user-defined virtual devices by restoring the volume groups and manually recreating virtual device mappings. Use this option in situations where you plan to restore the VIOS to a new or different system. (For example, in the event of a system failure or disaster.) Furthermore, in these situations, you also need to restore the following components of your environment. Back up these components to fully recover your VIOS configuration:External device configurations, such as storage area network (SAN) devices. Resources defined on the  (), such as processor and memory allocations. In other words, restore your  partition profile data for the VIOS and its client partitions. The operating systems and applications running in the client logical partitions.  To perform  after you restore the , ensure that you restart the . You can back up and restore the VIOS as follows. Backup method Media Restoration method To tape Tape From tape To DVD DVD-RAM From DVD To remote file system nim_resources.tar image From an  using the Network Installation Management (NIM) on  facility and the  command To remote file system  image From an  NIM server and a standard  system installation  image You can restore the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata from tape. You can restore the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata from one or more DVDs. You can restore the  () base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata from a nim_resources.tar image stored in a remote file system. You can restore the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata from a mksysb image stored in a remote file system. You can restore user-defined virtual devices on the  (VIOS) by restoring volume groups and manually re-creating virtual device mappings.  You can use the  to restore the mksysb image of the .  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to restore the  (VIOS). Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Restoring the  from one or more DVDs You can restore the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata from one or more DVDs. If the system is managed by the , then you need to restore your partition profile data for the management partition and its clients before you restore the . . (Alternatively, you can use the  command.)   To restore the  from a one or more DVDs, follow these steps:  For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Restoring the  from the HMC by using a nim_resources.tar file You can restore the  () base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata from a nim_resources.tar image stored in a remote file system. If the system is managed by the , then you need to restore your partition profile data for the management partition and its clients before you restore the . . (Alternatively, you can use the  command.)  To restore the  from a nim_resources.tar image in a file system, complete the following steps:  This restores a backup image, nim_resources.tar, that was created using the  command.  For instructions, see .  As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to restore the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata from a nim_resources.tar image stored in a remote file system. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Restoring the  from a NIM server by using a mksysb file You can restore the  base code, applied fix packs, custom device drivers to support disk subsystems, and some user-defined metadata from a mksysb image stored in a remote file system. Before you start, complete the following tasks: Ensure that the server to which you plan to restore the  is defined as a Network Installation Management (NIM) resource. Ensure that the mksysb file (that contains the backup of the ) is on the NIM server. If the system is managed by the , then you need to restore your partition profile data for the management partition and its clients before you restore the . . (Alternatively, you can use the  command.)   To restore the  from a mksysb image in a file system, complete the following tasks:  To view a detailed description of the  command, see . For example: nim -o define -t mksysb -a server=servername -alocation=/export/ios_backup/ filename.mksysb objectname  Where:servername is the name of the server that holds the NIM resource. filename is the name of the mksysb file. objectname is the name by which NIM registers and recognizes the mksysb file.  For example: nim -o define -t spot -a server=servername -a location=/export/ios_backup/ SPOT -a source=objectname SPOTname Where:servername is the name of the server that holds the NIM resource. objectname is the name by which NIM registers and recognizes the mksysb file. SPOTname is the NIM object name for the mksysb image that was created in the previous step.  For example:smit nim_bosinst  Ensure the following entry fields contain the following specifications.Field Specification Installation TYPE mksysb SPOT SPOTname from step 3 MKSYSB objectname from step 2 Remain NIM client after install? no  For instructions, see step 3, Boot the , of .  For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Restoring the  by using  You can use the  to restore the mksysb image of the . You can restore the  to the system from which it was backed up, or to a new or different system (for example, in the event of a system failure or disaster). The following procedure applies to restoring the  to the system from which it was backed up. First, you restore the mksysb image to the  using the  command on the  client. But restoring the mksysb image does not restore the . You then need to transfer the mksysb image to another system and convert the mksysb image to an installable format. To restore the  to a new or different system, use one of the following procedures: Before you start, complete the following tasks:Ensure that the system to which you plan to transfer the mksysb image is running . Ensure that the system running  has a DVD-RW or CD-RW drive. Ensure that  has the cdrecord and mkisofs RPMs downloaded and installed. To download and install the RPMs, see the  Web site.  Interactive mode is not supported on the . You can view session information by typing dsmc on the  command line. To restore the  using , complete the following tasks:  dsmc -query  For example: dsmc -restore sourcefilespec Where sourcefilespec is the directory path to the location where you want to restore the mksysb image. For example, /home/padmin/mksysb_image    For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related reference: Related information:         
 Managing the  You can manage virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) and virtual Ethernet devices on the , as well as back up, restore, update, and monitor the . Most of the information in this topic is specific to management in an  environment.  You can import and export volume groups and storage pools, map virtual disks to physical disks, increase virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) device capacity, change the virtual SCSI queue depth. You can change the network configuration of the  logical partition, enable and disable GARP VLAN Registration Protocol (GVRP) on your Shared Ethernet Adapters, use Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) to manage systems and devices in complex networks. A subscription service is available to allow  users to stay current on news and product updates.  To install an update to the , you can obtain the update either from a CD that contains the update or download the update. You can back up the  (VIOS) and user-defined virtual devices using the  command .  You can restore the  () and user-defined virtual devices using the  command, , . You can install or replace a PCI adapter in the  logical partition.  You can view information and statistics about the , the server, and virtual resources to help you manage and monitor the system, and troubleshoot problems. The  Performance Advisor tool provides advisory reports that are based on the key performance metrics on various partition resources collected from the  environment. Parent topic:          
 Managing storage You can import and export volume groups and storage pools, map virtual disks to physical disks, increase virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) device capacity, change the virtual SCSI queue depth. You can use the  and  commands to move a user-defined volume group from one system to another.  Find instructions for mapping a virtual disk on a client logical partition to its physical disk on the . As storage demands increase for virtual client logical partitions, you can add physical storage to increase the size of your virtual devices and allocate that storage to your virtual environment.  Increasing the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) queue depth might provide performance improvements for some virtual configurations. Understand the factors involved in determining a change to the virtual SCSI queue depth value. You can use the  and  commands to back up and restore individual files or entire file systems. You can use the  TotalStorage Productivity Center collect and view information about the . Parent topic:          
 Importing and exporting volume groups and logical volume storage pools You can use the  and  commands to move a user-defined volume group from one system to another.   Consider the following when importing and exporting volume groups and logical volume storage pools: The import procedure introduces the volume group to its new system. You can use the  command to reintroduce a volume group or logical volume storage pool to the system that it had been previously associated with and had been exported from.  The  command changes the name of an imported logical volume if a logical volume of that name already exists on the new system. If the  command must rename a logical volume, it prints an error message to standard error. The export procedure removes the definition of a volume group from a system.  You can use the  and  commands to add a physical volume that contains data to a volume group by putting the disk to be added in its own volume group. The rootvg volume group cannot be exported or imported. You can use the  command to import a volume group or logical volume storage pool. You can use the  command to export a volume group or logical volume storage pool. Parent topic:          
 Importing volume groups and logical volume storage pools You can use the  command to import a volume group or logical volume storage pool. To import a volume group or logical volume storage pool, complete the following steps:  importvg -vg volumeGroupName physicalVolumeName Where:volumeGroupName is an optional parameter that specifies the name to use for the imported volume group. physicalVolumeName is the name of a physical volume that belongs to the imported volume group.   This command might return errors for file systems that are already mounted. To export a volume group or logical volume storage pool, see . Parent topic:          
 Exporting volume groups and logical volume storage pools You can use the  command to export a volume group or logical volume storage pool. Before you start, complete the following tasks:Determine whether the volume group or logical volume storage pool that you plan to export is a parent to the virtual media repository or to any file storage pools by completing the following steps:Run the  command to determine whether the volume group or logical volume storage pool that you plan to export is a parent of the virtual media repository. The Parent Pool field displays the parent volume group or logical volume pool of the virtual media repository.  Run the following command to determine whether a file storage pool is a child of the volume group or logical volume pool that you plan to export: lssp -detail -sp FilePoolName The results list the parent volume group or logical volume storage pool of the file storage pool. If the volume group or logical volume storage pool that you plan to export is a parent of the virtual media repository or a file storage pool, then complete the following steps.Parent of Virtual Media Repository Parent of a file storage pool Unload the backing device of each file-backed optical virtual target device (VTD) that has a media file loaded, by completing the following steps:Retrieve a list of the file-backed optical VTDs by running the following command:lsmap -all -type file_opt For each device that shows a backing device, run the following command to unload the backing device:unloadopt -vtd VirtualTargetDevice Unmount the Virtual Media Repository file system by running the following command:unmount /var/vio/VMLibrary Unconfigure the virtual target devices (VTDs) associated with the files contained in the file storage pools by completing the following steps:Retrieve a list of VTDs by running the following command:lssp -bd -sp FilePoolName where FilePoolName is the name of a file storage pool that is a child of the volume group or logical volume storage pool that you plan to export. For each file that lists a VTD, run the following command:rmdev -dev VirtualTargetDevice -ucfg Unmount the file storage pool by running the following command:unmount /var/vio/storagepools/FilePoolName where FilePoolName is the name of the file storage pool to be unmounted. To export the volume group or logical volume storage pool, run the following commands: To import a volume group or logical volume storage pool, see . Parent topic:          
 Mapping virtual disks to physical disks Find instructions for mapping a virtual disk on a client logical partition to its physical disk on the .  This procedure shows how to map a virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) disk on client logical partition to the physical device (disk or logical volume) on the .  To map a virtual disk to a physical disk, you need the following information. This information is gathered during this procedure: Virtual device name Slot number of the virtual SCSI client adapter Logical unit number (LUN) of the virtual SCSI device Client logical partition ID    Follow these steps to map a virtual disk on  client logical partition to its physical disk on the :  lscfg -l devicename This command returns results similar to the following: U9117.570.1012A9F-V3-C2-T1-L810000000000  Virtual SCSI Disk Drive  Connect to the  client logical partition. For example, using Telnet. On the  logical partition, run the uname -L command.Your results should look similar to the following: 2  fumi02 The logical partition ID is the first number listed. In this example, the logical partition ID is 2. This number is used in the next step. Type exit.  Log in to the , and from the  command line, type lshwres . Specify the managed console name for the  parameter and the client logical partition ID for the  parameter.  The managed console name, which is used for the  parameter, is determined by typing lssyscfg -r sys -F name from the  command line. Use the client logical partition ID recorded in Step 4 for the  parameter.   For example:  lshwres -r virtualio --rsubtype scsi -m fumi --filter lpar_ids=2 This example returns results similar to the following: lpar_name=fumi02,lpar_id=2,slot_num=2,state=null,adapter_type=client,remote_lpar_id=1, remote_lpar_name=fumi01,remote_slot_num=2,is_required=1,backing_devices=none   Record the name of the  located in the  field and slot number of the virtual SCSI server adapter, which is located in the  field. In this example, the name of the  is fumi01 and the slot number of the virtual SCSI server adapter is 2.  lsmap -all  lsmap -vadapter devicename Parent topic:          
 Increasing virtual SCSI device capacity As storage demands increase for virtual client logical partitions, you can add physical storage to increase the size of your virtual devices and allocate that storage to your virtual environment.  You can increase the capacity of your virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) devices by increasing the size of physical or logical volumes. With  Version 1.3 and later, you can do this without disrupting client operations. To increase the size of files and logical volumes based on storage pools, the  must be at Version 1.5 or later.   If you are using the , Version 7 release 3.4.2 or later, you can use the  graphical interface to increase the capacity of a virtual SCSI device on a.  To increase virtual SCSI device capacity, complete the following steps:  Physical volumes: Consult your storage documentation to determine whether your storage subsystem supports expanding the size of a logical unit number (LUN). The  examines all the disks in volume group vg1 to determine whether they have grown in size. For those disks that have grown in size, the  attempts to add additional physical partitions to the physical volumes. If necessary, the  determines the correct 1016 multiplier and conversion to a big volume group. Logical volumes based on volume groups: Run the  command. For example: extendlv lv3 100M. This example increases logical volume lv3 by 100 MB. If there is no additional space in the logical volume, complete the following tasks:Increase the size of the volume group by completing one of the following steps:Increase the size of the physical volumes. Consult your storage documentation for instructions. Add physical volumes to a volume group by running the  command. For example: extendvg vg1 hdisk2. This example adds physical volume hdisk2 to volume group vg1. Allocate the increased volume to partitions by resizing logical volumes. Run the  command to increase the size of a logical volume. Logical volumes based on storage pools: Run the  command. For example:chbdsp -sp lvPool -bd lv3 -size 100M. This example increases logical volume lv3 by 100 MB. If there is no additional space in the logical volume, complete the following tasks:Increase the size of the logical volume storage pool by completing one of the following steps:Increase the size of the physical volumes. Consult your storage documentation for instructions. Add physical volumes to the storage pool by running the  command. For example: chsp -add -sp sp1 hdisk2. This example adds physical volume hdisk2 to storage pool sp1. Allocate the increased volume to partitions by resizing logical volumes. Run the  command to increase the size of a logical volume. Files: Run the  command. For example:chbdsp -sp fbPool -bd fb3 -size 100M. This example increases file fb3 by 100 MB. If there is no additional space in the file, increase the size of the file storage pool by running the  command. For example:chsp -add -sp fbPool -size 100M. This example increases file storage pool fbPool by 100MB. If there is no additional space in the file storage pool, increase the size of the parent storage pool by completing one of the following tasks:Increase the size of the physical volumes. Consult your storage documentation for instructions. Add physical volumes to the parent storage pool by running the  command. For example:chsp -add -sp sp1 hdisk2. This example adds physical volume hdisk2 to storage pool sp1. Increase the size of the file storage pool by running the  command.  For example, if  is the operating system on the client logical partition, run the following command: chvg -g vg1 In this example,  examines all the disks in volume group vg1 to see if they have grown in size. For the disks that have grown in size,  attempts to add additional physical partitions to physical volumes. If necessary,  will determine proper 1016 multiplier and conversion to the big volume group.  Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Changing the virtual SCSI queue depth Increasing the virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) queue depth might provide performance improvements for some virtual configurations. Understand the factors involved in determining a change to the virtual SCSI queue depth value. The virtual SCSI queue depth value determines how many requests the disk head driver will queue to the virtual SCSI client driver at any one time. Increasing this value might improve the throughput of the disk in specific configurations. However, several factors must be taken into consideration. These factors include the value of the queue-depth attribute for all of the physical storage devices on the  being used as a virtual target device by the disk instance on the client logical partition, and the maximum transfer size for the virtual SCSI client adapter instance that is the parent device for the disk instance. For  client logical partitions, the maximum transfer size for virtual SCSI client adapters is set by the , which determines the value based on the resources available on the server and the maximum transfer size set for the physical storage devices on that server. Other factors include the queue depth and maximum transfer size of other devices involved in mirrored-volume-group or Multipath I/O (MPIO) configurations. Increasing the queue depth for some devices might reduce the resources available for other devices on that same shared adapter and decrease the throughput for those devices.  To change the queue depth for an  client logical partition, on the client logical partition use the  command with the  attribute as in the following example:chdev -l hdiskN -a "queue_depth=value" hdiskN represents the name of a physical volume and value is the value you assign between 1 and 256. To change the queue depth for a  client logical partition on the client logical partition, use the  command as in the following example:echo 16 > /sys/devices/vio/30000003/host0/target0:0:1/0:0:1:0/queue_depth By default, the value of the  attribute for a disk on the  operating system is 16.   To view the current setting for the queue_depth value, from the client logical partition issue the following command:lsattr -El hdiskN Parent topic:          
 Backing up and restoring files and file systems You can use the  and  commands to back up and restore individual files or entire file systems. Backing up and restoring files and files systems can be useful for tasks, such as  saving a file-backed device. The following commands are used to back up and restore files and files systems. Command Description Backs up files and file systems to media, such as physical tape and disk. For example:You can back up all the files and subdirectories in a directory using full path names or relative path names. You can back up the root file system. You can back up all the files in the root file system that have been modified since the last backup. You can back up virtual optical media files from the virtual media repository. Reads archives created by the  command and extracts the files stored there. For example:You can restore a specific file into the current directory. You can restore a specific file from tape into the virtual media repository. You can restore a specific directory and the contents of that directory from a file name archive or a file system archive. You can restore an entire file system. You can restore only the permissions or only the ACL attributes of the files from the archive. Parent topic:          
 Managing storage using the  TotalStorage Productivity Center You can use the  TotalStorage Productivity Center collect and view information about the . With  1.5.2, you can install and configure the TotalStorage Productivity Center agents on the . TotalStorage Productivity Center is an integrated, infrastructure management suite for storage that is designed to help simplify and automate the management of storage devices, storage networks, and capacity utilization of file systems and databases. When you install and configure the TotalStorage Productivity Center agents on the , you can use the TotalStorage Productivity Center interface to collect and view information about the . You can then perform the following tasks using the TotalStorage Productivity Center interface:Run a discovery job for the agents on the . Run probes, run scans, and ping jobs to collect storage information about the . Generate reports using the Fabric Manager and the Data Manager to view the storage information gathered.  View the storage information gathered using the topology Viewer. Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Configuring the  TotalStorage Productivity Center agents You can configure and start the  TotalStorage Productivity Center agents on the . With  1.5.2, you can configure the  TotalStorage Productivity Center agents on the . TotalStorage Productivity Center is an integrated, storage infrastructure management suite that is designed to help simplify and automate the management of storage devices, storage networks, and capacity utilization of file systems and databases. When you configure the TotalStorage Productivity Center agents on the , you can use the TotalStorage Productivity Center user interface to collect and view information about the . The  TotalStorage Productivity Center agent Version 6.2.2.0, or later, is shipped on the Virtual I/O Expansion media. This version of the  TotalStorage Productivity Center agent requires the GSKit8 libraries, which are also shipped on the Virtual I/O Expansion media. Before you start, complete the following tasks: Use the  command to verify that the  is at Version 1.5.2, or later. Ensure that there are no other operations running on the . Configuring the TotalStorage Productivity Center consumes all of the processing time.  In addition to the memory required by the  logical partition, ensure that you have allocated a minimum of 1 GB of memory to the  for the TotalStorage Productivity Center agents. To configure and start the TotalStorage Productivity Center agents, complete the following steps:  For example, $lssvc TPC  For example: A: S: devAuth: caPass: caPort: amRegPort: amPubPort: dataPort: devPort: newCA: oldCA: daScan: daScript: daInstall: faInstall: U:  The A, S, devAuth, and caPass attributes are required. The remainder of the attributes are optional. For more information about the attributes, see .  cfgsvc TPC -attr S=tpc_server_hostname A=agent_manager_hostname devAuth=password_1 caPass=password_2 Where:tpc_server_hostname is the host name or IP address of the TotalStorage Productivity Center server that is associated with the TotalStorage Productivity Center agent. agent_manager_hostname is the name or IP address of the Agent Manager. password_1 is the password required to authenticate to the TotalStorage Productivity Center device server. password_2 is the password required to authenticate to the common agent.  To start the TPC_data agent, run the following command:startsvc TPC_data To start the TPC_fabric agent, run the following command:startsvc TPC_fabric After you start the TotalStorage Productivity Center agents, you can perform the following tasks using the TotalStorage Productivity Center user interface:Run a discovery job for the agents on the . Run probes, scans, and ping jobs to collect storage information about the . Generate reports using the Fabric Manager and the Data Manager to view the storage information gathered.  View the storage information gathered using the topology Viewer. For more information, see the  TotalStorage Productivity Center support for agents on a Virtual I/O Server PDF file. To view or download the PDF file, go to the  Web site. Parent topic:          
 Configuring the Tivoli agents and clients on the  You can configure and start the  agent, . You can configure and start the  agent on the . You can configure and start the  agent on the . You can configure the client on the . You can configure and start the  TotalStorage Productivity Center agents on the . Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related information:         
 Configuring the  agent You can configure and start the  agent on the .  monitor the health and availability of multiple servers (including the ) from the Tivoli Enterprise Portal.   System Edition  gathers data from the , including data about physical volumes, logical volumes, storage pools, storage mappings, network mappings, real memory, processor resources, mounted file system sizes, and so on. From the Tivoli Enterprise Portal, you can view a graphical representation of the data, use predefined thresholds to alert you on key metrics, and resolve issues based on recommendations provided by the Expert Advice feature of . Before you start, complete the following tasks: Ensure that the  is running fix pack 8.1.0.  Verify that you are a super administrator of the . Verify that you are the prime administrator of the . To configure and start the monitoring agent, complete the following steps:  For example, $lssvc ITM_premium  For example, ITM_premium  For example:$cfgsvc –ls ITM_premium  HOSTNAME RESTART_ON_REBOOT MANAGING_SYSTEM    cfgsvc ITM_agent_name -attr Restart_On_Reboot=value hostname=name_or_address1  managing_system=name_or_address2 Where:ITM_agent_name is the name of the monitoring agent. For example, ITM_premium. value must be either TRUE of FALSE as follows:TRUE: ITM_agent_name restarts whenever the  restarts FALSE: ITM_agent_name does not restart whenever the  restarts name_or_address1 is either the host name or IP address of the Tivoli Enterprise Monitoring Server (TEMS) server to which ITM_agent_name sends data. name_or_address2 is either the host name of IP address of the  () attached to the managed system on which the  with the monitoring agent is located.   For example:cfgsvc ITM_premium –attr Restart_On_Reboot=TRUE hostname=tems_server managing_system=hmc_console In this example, the ITM_premium monitoring agent is configured to send data to tems_server, and to restart whenever the  restarts.  For example:startsvc ITM_premium   After you configure a secure shell connection for one monitoring agent, you do not need to configure it again for any additional agents.  viosvrcmd -m managed_system_name -p vios_name -c "cfgsvc -key ITM_agent_name" Where:managed_system_name is the name of the managed system on which the  with the monitoring agent  is located. vios_name is the name of the  logical partition (with the monitoring agent) as defined on the . ITM_agent_name is the name of the monitoring agent. For example, ITM_premium.  mkauthkeys --add public_key where public_key is the output from the  command in step 6b.  For example:$ viosvrcmd -m commo126041 -p VIOS7 -c "cfgsvc ITM_premium -key" ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAABIwAAAQEAvjDZ   sS0guWzfzfp9BbweG0QMXv1tbDrtyWsgPbA2ExHA+xduWA51K0oFGarK2F   C7e7NjKW+UmgQbrh/KSyKKwozjp4xWGNGhLmfan85ZpFR7wy9UQG1bLgXZ   xYrY7yyQQQODjvwosWAfzkjpG3iW/xmWD5PKLBmob2QkKJbxjne+wqGwHT   RYDGIiyhCBIdfFaLZgkXTZ2diZ98rL8LIv3qb+TsM1B28AL4t+1OGGeW24   2lsB+8p4kamPJCYfKePHo67yP4NyKyPBFHY3TpTrca4/y1KEBT0Va3Pebr   5JEIUvWYs6/RW+bUQk1Sb6eYbcRJFHhN5l3F+ofd0vj39zwQ== root@vi   os7.vios.austin.ibx.com $ mkauthkeys --add 'ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAABIwAAAQEAvjDZ   sS0guWzfzfp9BbweG0QMXv1tbDrtyWsgPbA2ExHA+xduWA51K0oFGarK2F   C7e7NjKW+UmgQbrh/KSyKKwozjp4xWGNGhLmfan85ZpFR7wy9UQG1bLgXZ   xYrY7yyQQQODjvwosWAfzkjpG3iW/xmWD5PKLBmob2QkKJbxjne+wqGwHT   RYDGIiyhCBIdfFaLZgkXTZ2diZ98rL8LIv3qb+TsM1B28AL4t+1OGGeW24   2lsB+8p4kamPJCYfKePHo67yP4NyKyPBFHY3TpTrca4/y1KEBT0Va3Pebr   5JEIUvWYs6/RW+bUQk1Sb6eYbcRJFHhN5l3F+ofd0vj39zwQ== root@vi   os7.vios.austin.ibx.com' When you are finished, you can view the data gathered by the monitoring agent from the Tivoli Enterprise Portal. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Configuring the  agent You can configure and start the  agent on the . With  1.4, you can configure the  agent on the .  helps you track, allocate, and invoice your IT costs by collecting, analyzing, and reporting on the actual resources used by entities such as cost centers, departments, and users.  can gather data from multi-tiered datacenters that include Windows, , HP/UX Sun Solaris,  and VMware.  Before you start, ensure that the  is installed. The  agent is packaged with the  and is installed when the  is installed. For instructions, see . To configure and start the  agent, complete the following steps: Optional:  The A_config.par file is located at /home/padmin/tivoli/ituam/A_config.par.   For example, $lssvc ITUAM_base  For example, ITUAM_base  For example:$cfgsvc –ls ITUAM_base  ACCT_DATA0 ACCT_DATA1 ISYSTEM IPROCESS    cfgsvc ITUAM_agent_name -attr ACCT_DATA0=value1 ACCT_DATA1=value2 ISYSTEM=value3 IPROCESS=value4 Where:ITUAM_agent_name is the name of the  agent. For example, ITUAM_base. value1 is the size (in MB) of the first data file that holds daily accounting information. value2 is the size (in MB) of the second data file that holds daily accounting information. value3 is the time (in minutes) when the agent generates system interval records. value4 is the time (in minutes) when the system generates aggregate process records.  For example:startsvc ITUAM_base After you start the  agent, it begins to collect data and generate log files. You can configure the  server to retrieve the log files, which are then processed by the  Processing Engine. You can work with the data from the  Processing Engine as follows:You can generate customized reports, spreadsheets, and graphs.  provides full data access and reporting capabilities by integrating Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services or Crystal Reports with a Database Management System (DBMS). You can view high-level and detailed cost and usage information. You can allocate, distribute, or charge IT costs to users, cost centers, and organizations in a manner that is fair, understandable, and reproducible. For more information, see the . Parent topic:  Related reference:         
 Configuring the  client You can configure the client on the . With  1.4, you can configure the  client on the . With , you can protect your data from failures and other errors by storing backup and disaster-recovery data in a hierarchy of offline storage.  can help protect computers running a variety of different operating environments, including the , on a variety of different hardware. If you configure the  client on the , you can include the  in your standard backup framework. Before you start, ensure that the  is installed. The  client is packaged with the  and is installed when the  is installed. For instructions, see . To configure and start the  client, complete the following steps:  For example, $lssvc TSM_base  For example, TSM_base  For example:$cfgsvc –ls TSM_base  SERVERNAME SERVERIP NODENAME    cfgsvc TSM_client_name -attr SERVERNAME=hostname SERVERIP=name_or_address NODENAME=vios  Where:TSM_client_name is the name of the  client. For example, TSM_base. hostname is the host name of the  server to which the  client is associated. name_or_address is the IP address or domain name of the  server to which the  client is associated. vios is the name of the machine on which the  client is installed. The name must match the name registered on the  server.  To determine what information you must provide to the  administrator, see the . After you are finished, you are ready to back up and restore the  using the . For instructions, see the following procedures: Parent topic:          
 Backing up the  by using  You can use the  to automatically back up the  on regular intervals, or you can perform incremental backups. You can automate backups of the  using the  command and the  scheduler.  You can back up the  at any time by performing an incremental backup with the .  Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Backing up the  by using  automated backup You can automate backups of the  using the  command and the  scheduler.  Before you start, complete the following tasks: Ensure that you configured the  client on the . For instructions, see . Ensure that you are logged into the  as the prime administrator (padmin). To automate backups of the , complete the following steps:  For more information, see the following tasks:For instructions about how to create a mksysb image, see . For instructions about how to save user-defined virtual devices, see .  crontab -e  0 2 0 0 6 /home/padmin/backup When you are finished, remember to save and exit.  This task is not performed on the  client on the . This task is performed by the  administrator on the  server.  dsmc -schedule  itsm::once:/usr/bin/dsmc sched > /dev/null 2>&1 # TSM scheduler Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Backing up the  by using  incremental backup You can back up the  at any time by performing an incremental backup with the .  Perform incremental backups in situations where the automated backup does not suit your needs. For example, before you upgrade the , perform an incremental backup to ensure that you have a backup of the current configuration. Then, after you upgrade the , perform another incremental backup to ensure that you have a backup of the upgraded configuration. Before you start, complete the following tasks: Ensure that you configured the  client on the . For instructions, see . Ensure that you have a mksysb image of the . If you plan to restore the  to a different system from which it was backed up, then ensure that the mksysb includes information about user-defined virtual devices. For more information, see the following tasks:For instructions about how to create a mksysb image, see . For instructions about how to save user-defined virtual devices, see .  For example, dsmc -incremental sourcefilespec Where sourcefilespec is the directory path to where the mksysb file is located. For example, /home/padmin/mksysb_image. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Configuring the  You need to configure virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) and virtual Ethernet devices on the . Optionally, you can also configure virtual Fibre Channel adapters, Tivoli® agents and clients, and configure the  as an LDAP client. You can configure virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) devices by deploying a system plan, creating volume groups and logical volumes, and configuring the  SCSI-2 reserve functions. Learn about using the  () command-line interface to manage shared storage pools. Learn about using the  () configuration menu to manage shared storage pools. Learn about using the  () command line to configure the Trusted Logging capability for increased log security. Learn about using the Trusted Firewall feature that is supported on the PowerSC Editions. You can use this feature to perform intervirtual LAN routing functions by using the Security Virtual Machine (SVM) kernel extension.  You can configure virtual Ethernet devices by deploying a system plan, create and configure a , and configure a  device. To enable N-Port ID Virtualization (NPIV) on managed systems, connect the virtual Fibre Channel adapter on the Virtual I/O Server logical partition to a physical port on a physical Fibre Channel adapter. You can configure and start the  agent, . You can configure and start the  Director agent on the .  Version 1.4 can be configured as an LDAP client and then you can manage  from an LDAP server. If you are using the  () Version 7 Release 7.7.0, or later, you can use Virtual Station Interface (VSI) profiles with virtual Ethernet adapters in logical partitions and assign the Virtual Ethernet Port Aggregator (VEPA) switching mode to virtual Ethernet switches. Parent topic:          
 Getting started with shared storage pools by using the  configuration menu Learn about using the  () configuration menu to manage shared storage pools. On  Version 2.2.0.11, Fix Pack 24, Service Pack 1, or later, you can create a clustering configuration. Each  has a default storage pool. You can use the  command-line interface to manage shared storage pools.   On  Version 2.2.0.11, Fix Pack 24, Service Pack 1, a  consists of only one  partition.   Version 2.2.1.0 supports only one cluster in a  partition.  On  Version 2.2.1.3, or later, a cluster consists of up to four networked  partitions.  On  Version 2.2.2.0, or later, a cluster consists of up to 16 networked  partitions.  To access  configuration menu, run the  command from the command-line interface. On the  configuration menu, move the cursor to the Shared Storage Pools menu and press Enter. Use the submenus to manage clusters, storage pools, and logical units in shared storage pools. To select information, such as existing  names, associated storage pool names, and logical unit names on the Shared Storage Pools menu, you can use the following wizards on the  configuration menu:  and Storage Pool Selection wizard: On the Shared Storage Pools menu, you can use the  and Storage Pool Selection wizard to select the name of an existing  and associated storage pool. The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard displays the set of  names. After you select a , the wizard displays the names of the associated storage pools. Logical Unit Selection wizard: On the Manage Logical Units in Storage Pool submenu, you can use the Logical Unit Selection wizard to select the names of logical units. You can identify multiple logical unit names, redisplay the Logical Unit Selection wizard, and change the logical unit selection. Snapshot Selection wizard: On the Manage Logical Units in Storage Pool submenu, you can use the Snapshot Selection wizard to select snapshots and logical units. You can select cluster names and the storage pool name. You can use the  () configuration menu to manage a . You can use the  () configuration menu to manage shared storage pools. You can use the  () configuration menu to manage logical units in shared storage pools. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Managing a  by using the  configuration menu You can use the  () configuration menu to manage a . You can create a  in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can list all clusters in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can delete a  from shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can add  () nodes to a  by using the  () configuration menu. You can delete  () nodes from a  by using the  () configuration menu. You can list all  () nodes in a cluster by using the  () configuration menu. Parent topic:          
 Creating a  You can create a  in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To create a  in shared storage pools:  The Create  window opens. Parent topic:          
 Listing all clusters You can list all clusters in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To list all clusters in shared storage pools:  The list of all clusters that are associated with the  logical partition is displayed. Parent topic:          
 Adding  nodes to a  You can add  () nodes to a  by using the  () configuration menu. To add  nodes to a :  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Add  Nodes to  window displays the  name that you selected. Parent topic:          
 Deleting  nodes from a  You can delete  () nodes from a  by using the  () configuration menu. To delete  nodes from a :  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The nodes of the  are displayed.  The Delete  Nodes From  window opens.   If the  logical partition is mapped to a logical unit in the storage pool of the , deleting  nodes from a  fails. To remove the logical partition, unmap the logical unit. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Unmapping logical units Learn about unmapping logical units by using the  () configuration menu. You can unmap logical units by selecting the logical unit names by using the  () configuration menu. You can unmap logical units by virtual server adapter name by using the  () configuration menu. You can unmap logical units by virtual target device name by using the  () configuration menu. Parent topic:          
 Unmapping logical units by logical unit name You can unmap logical units by selecting the logical unit names by using the  () configuration menu. To unmap logical units by selecting the logical unit names:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Logical Unit Selection By LU Name window opens.  The Unmap Logical Unit By LU Name window displays the  name, storage pool name, and the logical unit names that you selected. Parent topic:          
 Unmapping logical units by virtual server adapter name You can unmap logical units by virtual server adapter name by using the  () configuration menu. To unmap logical units by selecting the virtual server adapter names:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Logical Unit Selection By Virtual Server Adapter Name window opens.  The Unmap Logical Unit By VAdapter window displays the  name, storage pool name, and the logical unit names corresponding to the virtual server adapter names that you selected. Parent topic:          
 Unmapping logical units by virtual target device name You can unmap logical units by virtual target device name by using the  () configuration menu. To unmap logical units by selecting the virtual target device names:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Logical Unit Selection By Virtual Target Device Name window opens.  The Unmap Logical Unit By VTD window displays the  name, storage pool name, and the logical unit names corresponding to the virtual target device names that you selected. Parent topic:          
 Managing logical units by using the  configuration menu You can use the  () configuration menu to manage logical units in shared storage pools. You can create and map logical units in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can create logical units in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can map an existing logical unit to a virtual server adapter in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. Learn about unmapping logical units by using the  () configuration menu. You can delete a logical unit from shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can list logical units in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can list the logical unit mappings in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can create snapshots of logical units in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. Learn about listing snapshots of logical units by using the  () configuration menu. You can roll back to the logical unit snapshot in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can delete a logical unit snapshot in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. Parent topic:          
 Creating and mapping logical units You can create and map logical units in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To create and map logical units in shared storage pools:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Create and Map Logical Unit window displays the  name and storage pool name that you selected. Parent topic:          
 Mapping logical units You can map an existing logical unit to a virtual server adapter in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To map an existing logical unit to a virtual server adapter in shared storage pools:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Logical Unit Selection wizard starts.  The Map Logical Unit window displays the  name, storage pool name, and the logical unit name that you selected. Parent topic:          
 Deleting a logical unit You can delete a logical unit from shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To delete a logical unit from shared storage pools:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Logical Unit Selection wizard starts.  The Delete Logical Unit window displays the  name, storage pool name, and the logical unit name that you selected. Parent topic:          
 Listing logical units You can list logical units in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To list logical units in shared storage pools:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The list of all logical units associated with the shared storage pool is displayed. Parent topic:          
 Listing logical unit maps You can list the logical unit mappings in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To list the logical unit mappings in shared storage pools:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The list of all logical unit mappings associated with the shared storage pool is displayed. Parent topic:          
 Creating a logical unit snapshot You can create snapshots of logical units in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu.  Before you create a snapshot, perform synchronization of the virtual disk on the client partition. To create snapshots of logical units in shared storage pools:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Logical Unit Selection wizard starts.  The Create Logical Unit Snapshot window displays the  name, storage pool name, and the logical unit names that you selected. Parent topic:          
 Listing logical unit snapshots Learn about listing snapshots of logical units by using the  () configuration menu. You can list snapshots for a logical unit in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can list the logical units in a snapshot in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. You can list all logical unit snapshots in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. Parent topic:          
 Listing snapshots for a logical unit You can list snapshots for a logical unit in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To list snapshots for a logical unit in shared storage pools:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The List Snapshots for a Logical Unit window displays the  name, storage pool name, and the logical unit names. Parent topic:          
 Listing logical units in a snapshot You can list the logical units in a snapshot in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To list the logical units in a snapshot:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The List Logical Units in a Snapshot window displays the  name, storage pool name, and the snapshot name. Parent topic:          
 Listing all logical unit snapshots You can list all logical unit snapshots in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To list all logical unit snapshots in shared storage pools:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts. Parent topic:          
 Rolling back to the logical unit snapshot You can roll back to the logical unit snapshot in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu.   If the logical unit is a rootvg device, you must shut down the client partition before you roll back to the logical unit snapshot.  If the logical unit is a datavg device, stop access to all the volume groups in the virtual disk by using the  command.  To roll back to a logical unit snapshot: Parent topic:          
 Deleting a logical unit snapshot You can delete a logical unit snapshot in shared storage pools by using the  () configuration menu. To delete a logical unit snapshot: Parent topic:          
 Listing  nodes in a cluster You can list all  () nodes in a cluster by using the  () configuration menu. To list all Virtual I/O Server nodes in a cluster:  The list of all  nodes associated with the cluster is displayed. Parent topic:          
 Managing storage pools by using the  configuration menu You can use the  () configuration menu to manage shared storage pools. You can list storage pools in a  by using the  () configuration menu. You can list the physical volumes in the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. When more storage space is required in a storage pool, you can use the  () configuration menu to add one or more physical volumes to the storage pool. You can use the  () configuration menu to perform tasks related to setting or modifying the storage pool threshold alert on the  configuration menu. Parent topic:          
 Listing storage pools in a  You can list storage pools in a  by using the  () configuration menu. To list storage pools in a :  The list of all storage pools associated with the  is displayed. Parent topic:          
 Listing physical volumes in the storage pool You can list the physical volumes in the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. To list the physical volumes in the storage pool:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The list of all physical volumes associated with the storage pool is displayed. Parent topic:          
 Adding storage space to the storage pool When more storage space is required in a storage pool, you can use the  () configuration menu to add one or more physical volumes to the storage pool. You can add physical volumes to the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. You can replace physical volumes in the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. You can list the physical volumes in the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. Parent topic:          
 Adding physical volumes to the storage pool You can add physical volumes to the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. To add physical volumes to the storage pool:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Add Physical Volumes to Storage Pool window displays the  name and storage pool name that you selected. Parent topic:          
 Replacing physical volumes in the storage pool You can replace physical volumes in the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. When more storage space is needed in a storage pool you can also remove and replace existing physical volumes in a storage pool. If you are replacing the existing physical volume with a physical volume that has a larger capacity, the capacity of the shared storage pool will increase.  You can replace physical volumes only in one cluster at a time. Do not use this task to only increase the capacity of the shared storage pool. To remove and replace physical volumes in the storage pool:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Replace Physical Volumes in Storage Pool window displays the  name and storage pool name that you selected.  If the size of physical volume that is being replaced is large, the replace operation might take a longer time to complete. Parent topic:          
 Setting and modifying the storage pool threshold alert You can use the  () configuration menu to perform tasks related to setting or modifying the storage pool threshold alert on the  configuration menu. You can list the threshold alert value of the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. You can change the threshold alert value of the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. You can remove the threshold alert value of the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. Parent topic:          
 Listing the storage pool threshold alert value You can list the threshold alert value of the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. To list the threshold alert value of the storage pool:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The threshold alert value of the storage pool is displayed. Parent topic:          
 Changing the storage pool threshold alert value You can change the threshold alert value of the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. To change the threshold alert value of the storage pool:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Change Threshold Alert Level in Storage Pool window displays the  name, storage pool name, and current threshold alert value of the storage pool. Parent topic:          
 Removing the storage pool threshold alert value You can remove the threshold alert value of the storage pool by using the  () configuration menu. To remove the threshold alert value of the storage pool:  The  and Storage Pool Selection wizard starts.  The Remove Threshold Alert Level in Storage Pool window displays the  name and storage pool name that you selected. Parent topic:          
 Getting started with Trusted Logging Learn about using the  () command line to configure the Trusted Logging capability for increased log security. By using the PowerSC Trusted Logging capability, you can configure  logical partitions to write to log files that are stored on an attached . Data is transmitted to the  directly through the hypervisor. Thus, configured network connectivity is not required between the client logical partitions and the  on which the log files are stored. The  administrator can create and manage the log files by using the  command-line interface. The following table lists the commands that can be used to configure and manage the Trusted Logging capability. Command Description Changes the configuration of an existing virtual log. Changes the configuration of a virtual log repository. Lists the currently defined virtual logs. Lists the current configuration of the virtual log repositories. Creates a new virtual log. Removes an existing virtual log. The Trusted Logging capability introduces the following concepts:Virtual log repositories Virtual logs Virtual log devices These concepts are present in the  as illustrated in the following figure. The virtual log devices are attached to virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapters to expose the virtual log functions to client logical partitions. The virtual log devices are backed by virtual logs. Virtual logs are present in the  file system as subdirectories within the virtual log repository. The virtual log repository is a directory in the  file system. The following figure shows the concepts of the Trusted Logging capability. Virtual log repositories are directories in the file system accessible by the  (). You can create one or more virtual logs in a virtual log repository. A virtual log is a directory in a virtual log repository. A virtual log device is a virtual target device on the  (), attached to a virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) host adapter and backed by a virtual log. You can configure a virtual log repository by using the  command. You can display the properties of the virtual log repositories by using the  command. You can create a virtual log and attach it to a virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) host adapter by using the  command. You can list virtual logs or virtual log devices by using the  command. You can reconfigure virtual logs or virtual log devices by using the  command. You can use the  command to remove virtual logs or virtual log devices from a virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter, or to unconfigure a virtual log device. The virtual log can be specified by using the UUID or by the associated virtual log device name, if it exists. When a client logical partition is moved from one host system to another during Live Partition Mobility, new virtual log devices are created on the destination  ().  You can use the Trusted Logging feature to direct log data to a file system shared across  () logical partitions.  Parent topic:  Related reference: Related information:         
 Virtual log repositories Virtual log repositories are directories in the file system accessible by the  (). You can create one or more virtual logs in a virtual log repository.  Every  has at least the local virtual log repository in the  directory by default. If the  is configured to use shared storage pools, there is another repository associated with each shared storage pool. When virtual logs are created, they are placed inside a specified virtual log repository. If an alternative repository is not specified, the local repository is used by default. The  administrator can change the location of the local repository in the file system. However, shared storage pool repositories must reside in a fixed location. Parent topic:          
 Virtual logs A virtual log is a directory in a virtual log repository. The virtual log is used to store logs that are generated by an  logical partition. The properties of a virtual log can either be specified or inherited from the virtual log repository when the virtual log is created. The following table lists the virtual log properties.Property Description Unique ID (UUID) Specifies the unique ID of the virtual log. This value is assigned when the virtual log is created and is retained permanently. If a logical partition is migrated to another system, the virtual log is re-created with the same configuration and unique ID on the destination  () partition. For more information, see . State Indicates whether the virtual log can be attached to a client logical partition. It has the following possible values: Enabled: Indicates that the virtual log can be attached to a client logical partition. Migrated: Indicates that the virtual log is active on another  after a migration operation. Disabled: Indicates that the virtual log is not available for use by a client logical partition. Client name Indicates the name of the client. This property can be set to any value. However, typically all virtual logs intended for a particular client logical partition are assigned the same client name, for ease of administration. If a virtual log is created and attached to a client logical partition in a single operation, the  attempts to obtain the host name from the client logical partition and use that as the client name if it is not specified on the command line. Log name Indicates the name of a virtual log. This property can be assigned any value by the administrator of the client logical partition, depending on the purpose, and must be provided when a new virtual log is created. For example, you can create two virtual logs, audit and syslog, for a given logical partition for the collection of audit and syslog data. Maximum log file size Specifies the maximum file size of the virtual log in bytes. Maximum number of log files Specifies the maximum number of virtual log files. Maximum state file size Specifies the maximum size of the state file in bytes. A state file consists of additional information about when the virtual log devices were configured, opened, closed, and various other operations that might be of interest in an analysis of log activity.  Maximum number of state files Specifies the maximum number of state files. A state file consists of additional information about when the virtual log devices were configured, opened, closed, and various other operations that might be of interest in an analysis of log activity.   The client name and log name properties also define the directory within the virtual log repository in which the log is stored. A virtual log repository contains a subdirectory for each client name. This subdirectory contains a directory for each log name. For example, with the local virtual log repository set to the default directory , a virtual log with the client name lpar-01 and the log name audit stores the logs in the  directory. If you rename the logical partition or change the host name, the client name property is not automatically updated. Use the  command to change the value of the client name for the virtual log. Each virtual log consists of the following types of information:Log data: Raw log data generated by the client logical partition. The log data is stored in files named in the client_name_log_name.nnn format. State data: Additional information about when the virtual log devices were configured, opened, closed, and various other operations that might be of interest in an analysis of log activity. This data is generated without any explicit user action. The state data is stored in files that are named in the client_name_log_name.state.nnn format. In both cases, nnn starts at 000. The data is written to that file until the next write operation increases the size of the file to a value more than the maximum log file size. When the size of the file increases to a value more than the maximum log file size, nnn is incremented and a new file is created, overwriting any existing file with that name. Log data is written to the new file until nnn is incremented again and it reaches the limit specified in the properties of the virtual log. At this stage, nnn is reset to 000. For example, consider a virtual log with the following properties:Client name:                    lpar-01 Log name:                       audit Maximum number of log files:    3 Maximum log file size:          2091216 Maximum number of state files:  2 Maximum state file size:        1000000 After a period of continued log generation, where the log files might have wrapped multiple times, the following directory contents are expected. The new log data are written to lpar-01_audit.002 and the new state data are written to lpar-01_audit.state.000. For example, running ls –l /var/vio/vlogs/lpar-01/audit results in the following output:-rw------- 1 root    system      2091216 May 25 18:28 lpar-01_audit.000 -rw------- 1 root    system      2091216 May 25 18:38 lpar-01_audit.001 -rw------- 1 root    system       752104 May 25 18:48 lpar-01_audit.002 -rw------- 1 root    system        16450 May 25 18:45 lpar-01_audit.state.000 -rw------- 1 root    system      1000000 May 21 07:23 lpar-01_audit.state.001 Parent topic:          
 Live Partition Mobility of virtual log devices When a client logical partition is moved from one host system to another during Live Partition Mobility, new virtual log devices are created on the destination  ().  these new virtual logs are independent of the virtual logs on the source . The configuration data of the source virtual log without the log file content is copied to the destination virtual log during migration. After migration, the source virtual log is placed in the migrated state to indicate that the virtual log is no longer active on the system and that it has been moved to another system. If you use a migration operation to move the client logical partition back to the original host system, and you select the original  to host the virtual logs of the logical partition, the existing virtual log is moved back to the enabled state.  Parent topic:          
 Virtual log devices A virtual log device is a virtual target device on the  (), attached to a virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) host adapter and backed by a virtual log.  By creating virtual log devices, virtual logs are made available to client logical partitions. The following sections describe the use of the local virtual log repositories. See  topic for the commands that can also be used to work with virtual logs within a shared storage pool. Parent topic:          
 Virtual log devices with shared storage pools You can use the Trusted Logging feature to direct log data to a file system shared across  () logical partitions.  By using the Trusted Logging feature with shared storage pools, you can obtain a single view of logical partition activity across several separate systems. Using virtual log devices with shared storage pools provides multipath logs on a single system and Live Partition Mobility of virtual logs. Learn about using virtual log devices with shared storage pools. Parent topic:          
 Benefits of using virtual log devices with shared storage pools Using virtual log devices with shared storage pools provides multipath logs on a single system and Live Partition Mobility of virtual logs. You can use the trusted log feature to direct log data to a file system shared across more than one  () and obtain a single view of logical partition activity across several separate systems. This feature provides the following benefits:Multipath logs on a single system: By using virtual logs in shared storage pools, more than one  on a single host can make the same virtual log available to a client logical partition through different virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) host adapters. The client logical partition detects the multipath arrangement and tolerates the deactivation of a single  by failing over to an alternative path, without losing log data. Live Partition Mobility of virtual logs: When  logical partitions on two different hosts have visibility of the same shared storage pool virtual log repository, a migration operation is able to continuously write to a single set of log files inside the shared storage pool, rather than to two different local virtual log repositories. Thus, in contrast to Live Partition Mobility with local virtual log repositories where the log files are split across two file systems, a single log file continues to be written across the migration operation. Parent topic:          
 Using virtual log devices with shared storage pools Learn about using virtual log devices with shared storage pools. To use virtual logs with shared storage pools, the  logical partitions must be clustered together. For instructions, see . This process creates a shared storage pool, the name of which is used in virtual log commands to operate on virtual logs within that shared storage pool. To create a virtual log inside a shared storage pool, complete the following tasks:  For example, entering the mkvlog -sp spool1 -name syslog -client lpar-01 command returns results similar to the following:Virtual log f5dee41bf54660c2841c989811de41dd created  vtlog1 Available  The ,  and  commands operate on virtual logs in shared storage pools in the same way that they operate on virtual logs in the local virtual log repository. However, the  command cannot be used to change virtual logs that are currently connected to virtual log devices anywhere in the cluster. The virtual log devices must be removed before changes can be made to the virtual log configuration. Additionally, the root path to a shared storage pool virtual log repository cannot be changed. The location is decided by the mount point of the shared storage pool on the  ().  Each shared storage pool has a separate virtual log repository with a separate set of default properties that are inherited by virtual logs created within that virtual log repository. By default, the  command displays the properties of all virtual log repositories. You can use the  and  options to display the properties of a specific virtual log repository. Parent topic:          
 Creating a virtual log You can create a virtual log and attach it to a virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) host adapter by using the  command. To create a virtual log and attach it to a virtual SCSI (VSCSI) host adapter, complete the following tasks:  Virtual log 00000000000000005b3f6b7cfcec4c67 created This command creates the syslog virtual log with the lpar-01 client name and other properties inherited from the default values that are associated with the virtual log repository. The  command returns the UUID that has been assigned to the new virtual log.  mkvlog -uuid 00000000000000005b3f6b7cfcec4c67 -vadapter vhost0 Results similar to the following are displayed:vtlog0 Available You can also create a virtual log and attach it to a VSCSI host adapter by using a single command instead of using the commands specified in step  and . For example, entering the mkvlog -name audit -vadapter vhost1 command creates a new virtual log with the log name audit. This virtual log is attached to the VSCSI host adapter vhost1, with the client name set to the host name of the client logical partition that is attached to vhost1. Results similar to the following are displayed:Virtual log 0000000000000000d96e956aa842d5f4 created vtlog0 Available   If the client logical partition is running, the client name does not need to be specified because the  command discovers the client name from the client logical partition. Parent topic:          
 Configuring the virtual log repository You can configure a virtual log repository by using the  command. You can display the properties of the virtual log repositories by using the  command. To configure or display the properties of a virtual log repository, use the following commands, as applicable: To display the current properties of virtual log repositories, enter the  command. Entering the  command returns results similar to the following:Local Repository: State:                   enabled Repository Root:         /var/vio/vlogs Maximum Log Files:       10 Maximum Log File Size:   2097152 Maximum State Files:     10 Maximum State File Size: 1048576 To display this information in a custom format, use the  flag. Specify a string with field names, separated by characters that are not alphanumeric, to display a customized output. The output contains one line for every virtual log repository. For example, entering the lsvlrepo -field "state-path lf" command returns results similar to one of the following:enabled-/tmp/vlogs/ 10 disabled-/var/vio/SSP/cTA1/D_E_F_A_U_L_T_061310/vlogs/ 3 See  for a list of all field names. To change the directory in which virtual logs are stored, enter the  command. The virtual log repository directory cannot be changed if any virtual logs exist in the repository. To change the directory, enter the following command:chvlrepo -path /mnt/logs You can change properties, such as the default number and size of log files, by using other options of the  command. See  for a list of all the options. For example, entering the following command changes the default values for virtual logs that are created in the local virtual log repository to have four log files, each up to 3 MB in size, and two state files, each up to 100 KB in size: chvlrepo -lf 4 -lfs 3M -sf 2 -sfs 100K Changing these default values does not change the configuration of existing virtual logs. You can also use the  command to disable the repository to stop the creation of virtual logs. A virtual log repository cannot be disabled if there are any virtual logs in the repository. For example, entering the following command disables the repository:chvlrepo -state disabled Parent topic:          
 Listing virtual logs or virtual log devices You can list virtual logs or virtual log devices by using the  command. To list virtual logs or virtual log devices, use the following commands, as applicable: To display the properties of virtual logs, enter the  command. For example, entering the  command returns results similar to the following:Client Name      Log Name         UUID                              VTD lpar-03          syslog           02392437473b6c552680a9ddd2fd8d06  vhost1/vtlog1 lpar-02          syslog           956f8c1c25208091495c721e0796f456  vhost0/vtlog0 lpar-01          audit            9705340b31a7883573a1cd04b2254efd lpar-01          syslog           b27a94a8e187ee5c917577c2a2df0268   You can filter the output by using options such as  to display only the log with a specific UUID. For example, entering the lsvlog -uuid 02392437473b6c552680a9ddd2fd8d06 command returns results similar to the following:Client Name  Log Name  UUID                              VTD lpar-03      syslog    02392437473b6c552680a9ddd2fd8d06  vhost1/vtlog1 To display all properties for each virtual log, use the  option. The virtual logs are displayed and are sorted by client name. For example, entering the lsvlog -uuid 02392437473b6c552680a9ddd2fd8d06 -detail command returns results similar to the following:Client Name: lpar-03 Log Name:                     syslog UUID:                         02392437473b6c552680a9ddd2fd8d06 Virtual Target Device:        vtlog1 Parent Adapter:               vhost1 State:                        enabled Logical Unit Address:         8100000000000000 Log Directory:                /var/vio/vlogs/lpar-03/syslog Maximum Log Files:            10 Maximum Log File Size:        1048576 Maximum State Files:          10 Maximum State File Size:      1048576 To display this information in a custom format, use the  option. Specify a string with field names separated by characters that are not alphanumeric. For example, entering the  command lists all virtual logs. Results similar to the following are displayed:02392437473b6c552680a9ddd2fd8d06       1048576:10 956f8c1c25208091495c721e0796f456       1048576:10 9705340b31a7883573a1cd04b2254efd       1048576:5 b27a94a8e187ee5c917577c2a2df0268       65536:20 Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Reconfiguring virtual logs or virtual log devices You can reconfigure virtual logs or virtual log devices by using the  command. To reconfigure virtual logs or virtual log devices, use the following commands, as applicable: To change the properties of a virtual log, enter the  command. You can change the properties of virtual logs even if the virtual log is attached to a virtual log device on a virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter, and the changes are immediate. If the virtual log is connected to a virtual SCSI adapter, it can be specified by using the name of the virtual log device. For example, to change the log file size on the running virtual log device vtlog0 to 2 MB, enter the chvlog -dev vtlog0 -lfs 2M command. Results similar to the following are displayed:Updated device. Regardless of whether a virtual log is connected to a virtual SCSI adapter, a virtual log can always be specified by using the UUID of the virtual log. For example, to change the state of the virtual log with UUID 00000000000000003cee6408c885d677 to disabled, enter the chvlog -uuid 00000000000000003cee6408c885d677 -state disabled command. Results similar to the following are displayed.Updated device. The state property for a virtual log controls whether the virtual log can be connected to a virtual SCSI adapter. Therefore, it is not valid to change the state property when the virtual log is attached to a virtual log device. For example, to change the state of the virtual log with UUID 00000000000000003cee6408c885d677 to disabled when it is connected to a virtual SCSI host adapter, enter the chvlog -uuid 00000000000000003cee6408c885d677 -state disabled command. Results similar to the following are displayed:To change the state, the virtual log must not be connected to a device. If you enter the  command, the VTD column is blank for this virtual log. To delete the virtual log device while retaining the virtual log, use the  command. Parent topic:          
 Removing virtual logs or virtual log devices You can use the  command to remove virtual logs or virtual log devices from a virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapter, or to unconfigure a virtual log device. The virtual log can be specified by using the UUID or by the associated virtual log device name, if it exists. To remove virtual log devices or virtual logs, use the following commands, as applicable: To change the specified virtual log device from the Available state to the Defined state, enter the  command. To specify the virtual log device by name, use the  option. For example, entering rmvlog -dev vtlog0 returns results similar to the following:vtlog0 Defined To specify the virtual log device, use the  option. When you use this option, the virtual log device that is currently associated with a virtual log and the specified UUID is changed. For example, entering rmvlog -uuid 0000000000000000a3e4dd0ba75972c2 returns results similar to the following:vtlog0 Defined To remove the specified virtual log device, specify the  option in addition to either the  or  option. When you use the  option, the virtual log device is deleted. However, the virtual log and all associated properties and data are retained.  For example, entering the rmvlog -dev vtlog0 -d returns results similar to the following:vtlog0 deleted To remove the virtual log device and the virtual log, specify the  option. When you use this option, the data is still retained. For example, entering the rmvlog -uuid 9705340b31a7883573a1cd04b2254efd -db command returns results similar to the following:Virtual log 9705340b31a7883573a1cd04b2254efd deleted. To remove the virtual log device, the virtual log, and any log files that are associated with the virtual log, specify the  option. For example, entering the rmvlog -dev vtlog0 -dbdata command returns results similar to the following:vtlog1 deleted Virtual log 02392437473b6c552680a9ddd2fd8d06 deleted. Log files deleted. Parent topic:          
 Getting started with Trusted Firewall Learn about using the Trusted Firewall feature that is supported on the PowerSC Editions. You can use this feature to perform intervirtual LAN routing functions by using the Security Virtual Machine (SVM) kernel extension.  With  () Version 2.2.1.4, or later, you can configure and manage the Trusted Firewall feature. By using this feature, logical partitions on different VLANs of the same server can communicate through the shared Ethernet adapter. The shared Ethernet adapter calls the intervirtual LAN routing functions through the SVM kernel extension. The SVM kernel extension consists of the following intervirtual LAN routing functions:Layer 3 routing: VLANs represent different logical networks. Therefore, a layer 3 router is required to connect the VLANs. Network filtering rules: Network filtering rules are required to permit, deny, or route intervirtual LAN network traffic. Network filtering rules can be configured by using the  command-line interface.   The following table lists the commands that can be used to configure and manage the Trusted Firewall feature by using the  command-line interface. Command Description Changes the definition of a VLAN-crossing filter rule in the filter rule table. Adds a filter rule for the VLAN-crossing between logical partitions on the same Power Systems™ server. Lists the VLAN-crossing filter rules and their status. Activates the VLAN-crossing filter rules defined by the  command. Removes the VLAN-crossing filter rules from the filter table. Displays or clears the IP and Media Access Control (MAC) mappings. Parent topic:  Related reference:         
 Configuring virtual Ethernet on the  You can configure virtual Ethernet devices by deploying a system plan, create and configure a , and configure a  device. Using the  (), Version 7 Release 3.4.2 or later, you can create a virtual Ethernet adapter on a  (). With a virtual Ethernet adapter, client logical partitions can access the external network without having to own a physical Ethernet adapter. To configure a shared Ethernet adapter (SEA) with  versions before 7, Release 3.4.2, you must use the  command-line interface. Configure a  device by using the  command. A  device can be used as the physical Ethernet adapter in the  configuration. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Creating a virtual Ethernet adapter with the  Version 7 graphical interface Using the  (), Version 7 Release 3.4.2 or later, you can create a virtual Ethernet adapter on a  (). With a virtual Ethernet adapter, client logical partitions can access the external network without having to own a physical Ethernet adapter. If you plan to use a  with a  (or Integrated Virtual Ethernet), ensure that the Logical Host Ethernet adapter (LHEA) on the  is set to promiscuous mode.   For  versions before Version 7, Release 3.4.2, you must use the  command-line interface to configure the adapter.  The  page is displayed.  The  page is displayed.  Assign a physical Ethernet adapter to the . If you plan to aggregate more than one physical Ethernet adapter into a  or Etherchannel device, then assign multiple physical Ethernet adapters to the . If you plan to use the  with a , then create an LHEA for the  logical partition. When you are finished, configure the  with the  command-line interface or the  graphical interface, Version 7 Release 3.4.2 or later. As an alternative to the , you can use the  () to create a virtual Ethernet adapter on a  so that client logical partitions can access the external network without having to own a physical Ethernet adapter. Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related information:         
 Configuring a  with the  command-line interface To configure a shared Ethernet adapter (SEA) with  versions before 7, Release 3.4.2, you must use the  command-line interface. In SEA, quality of service (QoS) is provided per SEA thread. By default, SEA runs in thread mode with seven threads. When SEA receives traffic, it routes the traffic to a thread, based on source and destination information. If the QoS mode is enabled, it further queues the traffic, based on its priority, to the appropriate priority queue associated with the selected thread. Queued traffic for a particular thread is serviced in the order of higher to lower priority. All threads handle all priorities. SEA QoS does not assure bandwidth for a particular priority. The effect of SEA QoS can be seen when there is enough traffic to keep all SEA threads busy, such that when a SEA thread is scheduled to run, it has enough higher priority traffic to service before it can get to the lower priority traffic. SEA QoS is not effective when the traffic pattern is such that the higher and lower priority traffic is spread across different threads. Before you can configure an SEA, you must first create the virtual Ethernet trunk adapter by using the  ().   You can configure an SEA with the  command-line interface.  lsdev -virtual  lsdev -type adapter  Ensure that TCP/IP is not configured on the interface for the physical Ethernet adapter. If TCP/IP is configured, the  command in the next step fails. You can also use a  device as the SEA. If you plan to use the  or Integrated Virtual Ethernet with the SEA, ensure that you use the Logical Host Ethernet adapter to create the SEA.  mkvdev -sea target_device -vadapter virtual_ethernet_adapters \ -default DefaultVirtualEthernetAdapter -defaultid SEADefaultPVID Where: DefaultVirtualEthernetAdapter The default virtual Ethernet adapter used to handle untagged packets. If you have only one virtual Ethernet adapter for this logical partition, use it as the default. SEADefaultPVID The PVID associated with your default virtual Ethernet adapter. target_device The physical adapter that is being used as part of the SEA device. virtual_ethernet_adapters The comma-separated list of the virtual Ethernet adapters that are used as a part of the SEA device.  All virtual adapters in a Shared Ethernet Adapter must be members of the same virtual switch.  For example:To create an SEAent3 with ent0 as the physical Ethernet adapter (or ) and ent2 as the only virtual Ethernet adapter (defined with a PVID of 1), type the following command: mkvdev -sea ent0 -vadapter ent2 -default ent2 -defaultid 1 To obtain the value for the SEADefaultPVID attribute in the  command, type the following command:enstat -all ent2 | grep "Port VLAN ID:" Output similar to the following example is displayed:Port VLAN ID: 1  lsdev -virtual  Yes: Go to step . No: You are finished with this procedure and can skip the remaining steps.  Yes: Go to step  to enable the SEA device to prioritize traffic. No: Go to step  to configure a TCP/IP connection.  Yes: Go to step  to create VLAN pseudo-devices. No: Go to step  to configure a TCP/IP connection.   mkvdev -vlan TargetAdapter -tagid TagID Where: TargetAdapter is the SEA. TagID is the VLAN ID that you defined when you created the virtual Ethernet adapter associated with the SEA.  For example, to create a VLAN pseudo-device using the SEA ent3 that you created with a VLAN ID of 1, type the following command: mkvdev -vlan ent3 -tagid 1  lsdev -virtual  The first connection must be on the same VLAN and logical subnet as the default gateway.mktcpip -hostname Hostname -inetaddr Address -interface Interface -netmask \ SubnetMask -gateway Gateway -nsrvaddr NameServerAddress -nsrvdomain Domain Where: Hostname is the host name of the  Address is the IP address that you want to use for the TCP/IP connection Interface is the interface that is associated with either the SEA device or a VLAN pseudo-device. For example, if the SEA device is ent3, the associated interface is en3. Subnetmask is the subnet mask address for your subnet. Gateway is the gateway address for your subnet. NameServerAddress is the address of your domain name server. Domain is the name of your domain. If you do not have more VLANs, then you are finished with this procedure and can skip the remaining steps.  chdev -dev interface -perm -attr netaddr=IPaddress -attr netmask=netmask  -attr state=up When using this command, enter the interface (enX) associated with either the SEA device or VLAN pseudo-device.   Along with configuring QoS on the VLAN devices, you can configure the QoS priority for a virtual Ethernet adapter, by using the Management console as well. You can also configure VLANs on  logical partitions. For more information, see the documentation for the  operating system.  For more information about the modes, see SEA.  Packets that are sent over the default VLAN ID (specified in the  or  field) are not tagged as VLAN; therefore, a VLAN priority value cannot be assigned to them.  Traffic sent over the interface created in step 7 will be tagged as VLAN and its VLAN header will have the VLAN priority value specified in step 6. When this traffic is bridged by a SEA that has been enabled for bandwidth apportioning, the VLAN priority value is used to determine how quickly it should be sent in relation to other packets at different priorities.  The  is now configured. After you configure the TCP/IP connections for the virtual adapters on the client logical partitions using the client logical partitions' operating systems, those logical partitions can communicate with the external network. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related information:         
  failover  failover provides redundancy by configuring a backup  on a different  logical partition that can be used if the primary  fails. The network connectivity in the client logical partitions continues without disruption. A  is comprised of a physical adapter (or several physical adapters grouped under a  device) and one or more virtual Ethernet adapters. It can provide layer 2 connectivity to multiple client logical partitions through the virtual Ethernet adapters. The  failover configuration uses the priority value that is given to the virtual Ethernet adapters during their creation to determine which  will serve as the primary and which will serve as the backup. The  that has the virtual Ethernet configured with the numerically lesser priority value will be used preferentially as the primary adapter. For the purpose of communicating between themselves to determine when a failover should take place, s in failover mode use a VLAN dedicated for such traffic, called the control channel. For this reason, a virtual Ethernet (created with a PVID that is unique on the system) must be specified as the control channel virtual Ethernet when each  is created in failover mode. Using the control channel, the backup  is notified when the primary adapter fails, and network traffic from the client logical partitions is sent over the backup adapter. If and when the primary  recovers from its failure, it again begins actively bridging all network traffic. A  in failover mode might optionally have more than one trunk virtual Ethernet. In this case, all the virtual Ethernet adapters in a  must have the same priority value. Also, the virtual Ethernet adapter used specifically for the control channel does not need to have the trunk adapter setting enabled. The virtual Ethernet adapters used for the control channel on each  in failover mode must have an identical PVID value, and that PVID value must be unique in the system, so that no other virtual Ethernet adapters on the same system are using that PVID. To ensure prompt recovery times, when you enable the Spanning Tree Protocol on the switch ports connected to the physical adapters of the , you can also enable the portfast option on those ports. The portfast option allows the switch to immediately forward packets on the port without first completing the Spanning Tree Protocol. (Spanning Tree Protocol blocks the port completely until it is finished.) The  is designed to prevent network loops.  However, as an additional precaution, you can enable Bridge Protocol Data Unit (BPDU) Guard on the switch ports connected to the physical adapters of the . BPDU Guard detects looped Spanning Tree Protocol BPDU packets and shuts down the port. This helps prevent broadcast storms on the network. A broadcast storm is a situation where one message that is broadcast across a network results in multiple responses. Each response generates more responses, causing excessive transmission of broadcast messages.  Severe broadcast storms can block all other network traffic, but they can usually be prevented by carefully configuring a network to block illegal broadcast messages.   When the  is using GARP VLAN Registration Protocol (GVRP), it generates BPDU packets, which causes BPDU Guard to shut down the port unnecessarily. Therefore, when the  is using GVRP, do not enable BPDU Guard. For information about how to enable the Spanning Tree Protocol, the portfast option, and BPDU Guard on the ports, see the documentation provided with the switch. Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Scenario: Configuring  failover Use this scenario to help you to configure primary and backup Shared Ethernet Adapters in the  logical partitions. You are the system administrator responsible for planning and configuring the network in an environment with the  running. You want to provide higher network availability to the client logical partition on the system. This can be accomplished by configuring a backup  in a different  logical partition. The objective of this scenario is to configure primary and backup Shared Ethernet Adapters in the  logical partitions so that network connectivity in the client logical partitions will not be lost in the case of adapter failure. The  () was set up. For more information about , see . You understand the partitioning concepts as described in the . For more information about , see . Two separate  logical partitions have been created and the  has been installed in each logical partition. For instructions, see . You understand what  failover is and how it works. See . You have created the remaining logical partitions that you want added to the network configuration. Each logical partition has an available physical Ethernet adapter assigned to it. You have IP addresses for all logical partitions and systems that will be added to the configuration. You cannot use the  with multiple  logical partitions on the same server. The following image depicts a configuration where the  failover feature is set up. The client logical partitions H1 and H2 are accessing the physical network using the Shared Ethernet Adapters, which are the primary adapters. The virtual Ethernet adapters used in the shared Ethernet setup are configured with the same VLAN membership information (PVID, VID), but have different priorities. A dedicated virtual network forms the control channel and is required to facilitate communication between the primary and backup shared Ethernet device. Using the preceding figure as a guide, follow these steps:  Configure the virtual adapters to be used for data as trunk adapters by selecting the trunk setting. Assign different prioritization values (valid values are 1-15) to each virtual adapter. Configure another virtual Ethernet to be used for the control channel by giving it a unique PVID value. Make sure you use the same PVID when creating this virtual Ethernet for both  logical partitions.  mkvdev -sea physical_adapter -vadapter virtual_adapter -default  virtual_adapter\ -defaultid PVID_of_virtual_adapter -attr ha_mode=auto  ctl_chan=control_channel_adapter For example, in this scenario, run the following command on both  logical partitions:mkvdev -sea ent0 -vadapter ent1 -default ent1 -defaultid 60 -attr ha_mode=auto  ctl_chan=ent2 Parent topic:          
 Installing and configuring the Hardware Management Console  Describes how to install the HMC hardware, connect it to your managed system, and configure it for use. You can perform these tasks yourself, or contact a service provider to perform these tasks for you. You might be charged a fee by the service provider for this service. Read about new or significantly changed information in the Installing and configuring the HMC topic since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF of this information. Learn about the tasks associated with different HMC installation and configuration tasks. Learn about the network settings you can use on the HMC. Use this section to gather required configuration settings that you need to know before you begin the configuration steps.  Use this worksheet to have the installation information you need ready for the installation.  You must set up the HMC hardware before you configure the HMC software. Learn more about setting up a desk-side HMC or a rack-mounted HMC.  Configure network connections, security, service applications, and some user preferences. After you have installed and configured the HMC, back up HMC data as necessary. Updates and upgrades are periodically released for the HMC to add new functionality and to improve existing features. Learn more about the differences between updating, upgrading, and migrating your HMC machine code. Also learn how to perform an HMC machine code update, upgrade, or migration. You can find part locations by using location codes. Use the HMC port location illustrations to map a location code to the HMC port position on the server.         
 Logical partitioning You can set up, manage, and troubleshoot  logical partitions using the  (), , or . By creating logical partitions, you can reduce the footprint of your datacenter by consolidating servers, and maximize the use of system resources by sharing resources across logical partitions. Read about new or changed information in Logical partitioning since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF of the logical partitioning information. Logical partitioning is the ability to make a server run as if it were two or more independent servers. When you logically partition a server, you divide the resources on the server into subsets called logical partitions. You can install software on a logical partition, and the logical partition runs as an independent logical server with the resources that you have allocated to the logical partition.  One of the best ways to learn about logical partitions is to see examples illustrating how many of the applications and functions can be used in a sample business environment. Use these scenarios to learn how you can use logical partitions in your business. You can create logical partitions to distribute resources within a single server and make it function as if it were two or more independent servers. Before creating logical partitions, you must assess your current and future needs. You can then use this information to determine the hardware configuration that will meet your current needs and serve as a base for meeting your future needs.  The  () is a system that controls managed systems, including the management of logical partitions and use of Capacity Upgrade on Demand. Using service applications, the  communicates with managed systems to detect, consolidate, and forward information  for analysis. You can use the  (), a component of the  hardware feature, to manage your  and client logical partitions.         
 Partitioning with the  The  () is a system that controls managed systems, including the management of logical partitions and use of Capacity Upgrade on Demand. Using service applications, the  communicates with managed systems to detect, consolidate, and forward information  for analysis. The  features a browser-based user interface. You can use the  locally by connecting a keyboard and mouse to the . You can also configure the  so that you can connect to the  remotely using a supported browser.  The Create Logical Partition wizard on the  () guides you through the procedure of creating logical partitions and partition profiles on your server. You can use the  () to configure virtual resources such as virtual Ethernet adapters, , and shared processor pools. Configure virtual resources to help optimize the use of physical system resources. By using the  (), you can change the configuration of the shared memory pool. For example, you can change the amount of physical memory assigned to the shared memory pool, change the  logical partitions that are assigned to the shared memory pool, and add or remove paging space devices to or from the shared memory pool.  You can manage the configuration of your logical partitions using the  (). The  allows you to adjust the hardware resources that are used by each logical partition. You can manage and enhance the performance of logical partitions so that your system uses its resources in the most efficient manner. When all logical partitions are managed by the , you can control who has access to the  and the system.  If you have problems with a partitioned system, determine if the problem is specific to logical partitions or is a system problem. If your problem is specific to logical partitions, you can use the reference codes to resolve the error. However, specific recovery actions and tasks might require the assistance of your next level of support.  To perform dynamic partitioning operations, you require a Resource Monitoring and Control (RMC) connection between the logical partition and the  (). If you cannot add or remove processors, memory, or I/O devices to or from a logical partition, check whether the RMC connection is active. Failure of the RMC connection is one of the most common reasons for failure of dynamic partitioning operations.  Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related information:         
 Creating logical partitions The Create Logical Partition wizard on the  () guides you through the procedure of creating logical partitions and partition profiles on your server. Use these procedures to create logical partitions on your new or nonpartitioned server using the  (). You can use the Create Logical Partition wizard on the  () to create a new logical partition. When you create a logical partition, you also create a partition profile that contains the resource allocations and settings for the logical partition. You can create  logical partition with suspension capability by using the  (). The  provides options to enable suspension of the logical partition when the logical partition is created. The  also provides an option to enable suspending a running logical partition.  You can enable the suspension capability of a logical partition by using the  (), after the logical partition is created. You can suspend a logical partition by using the  (), after the logical partition is created. When the suspend or resume operation has failed, the logical partition might be in an invalid state. You can then recover a suspended logical partition by using the  ().  You can assign a single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) logical port to a logical partition by using the  ().  You can create  logical partition with synchronization of the current configuration capability by using the  ().  You can enable the synchronization of the current configuration capability on a logical partition by using the  (), after the logical partition is created. You can enable a Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) on a logical partition by using the  (), after the logical partition is created.  You can create an  logical partition with Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) capability by using the  ().  Version 7.7.4 or later, provides an option to enable a VTPM on the logical partition when the logical partition is created. The  also provides an option to enable a VTPM on a running logical partition.  You can view the advanced Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) settings by using the  (). When the virtual switch is created, the default setting is the Virtual Ethernet Bridging (VEB) mode. You can change the virtual switch mode to Virtual Ethernet Port Aggregation (VEPA) by using the  (). When a  () logical partition is in the shutdown state during the activation of a logical partition or when the external switch is downgraded, the Virtual Station Interface (VSI) profile type information is not updated in the .  You can create more than one partition profile for a logical partition using the  (). Each partition profile can specify a different amount of system resources and different logical partition startup attributes. You can change the attributes used by a logical partition by shutting down the logical partition and restarting the logical partition using a different partition profile. You can create a system profile using the  (). A system profile is an ordered list of partition profiles. When you activate a system profile, the managed system attempts to activate the partition profiles in the system profile in the order in which the partition profiles are listed. You can create an  logical partition that uses  virtual I/O resources on  that are managed by a  (). This allows you to maximize utilization of the physical hardware and simplify the backup procedure for your managed system. You can create an  logical partition that uses  virtual I/O resources on  that are managed by a  (). This allows you to maximize utilization of the physical hardware and simplify the backup procedure for your managed system.  You can create a  logical partition that uses  virtual I/O resources on  that are managed by a  (). This allows you to maximize utilization of the physical hardware and simplify the backup procedure for your managed system. The service logical partition is the  logical partition  that you can configure to apply server firmware updates to the service processor or to the hypervisor. You can also use the service logical partition to communicate server common hardware errors to IBM. These abilities are useful if the  () is undergoing maintenance or is otherwise unable to perform these functions. You can use the  () and the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI) to erase all of your logical partitions and reset the managed system to a nonpartitioned configuration. When you reset the managed system, all of the physical hardware resources are assigned to a single logical partition. This allows you to use the managed system as if it were a single, nonpartitioned server. You can use the  () to delete a logical partition and all of the partition profiles associated with the logical partition. Parent topic:          
 Creating a logical partition with suspension capability  You can create  logical partition with suspension capability by using the  (). The  provides options to enable suspension of the logical partition when the logical partition is created. The  also provides an option to enable suspending a running logical partition.  Prerequisites and assumptionsEnsure that the following prerequisite steps have been completed and are operational before you start the configuration steps: The  () is set up and configured. For instructions, see . You read and understand the . You completed the tasks recommended for logical partition planning. For instructions, see . You removed the system from the manufacturing default configuration and moved the physical hardware to support a partitioned configuration. For instructions, see . Verify that the server has logical partition suspension capability. For instructions, see  You have logged in to the  with one of the following user roles: Super administrator Operator  Configuration stepsEnsure that all the prerequisites have been completed before completing these tasks. To create a new suspend-capable logical partition on your server using the , follow these steps: In the navigation pane, open  and click . In the work pane, select the managed system, click the  button, and click . Select the  check box. Follow the steps in the Create Logical Partition wizard to create a suspend-capable logical partition and a partition profile. You can also enable the suspension capability of a logical partition after logical partition creation. For instructions, see  Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Verifying that the server supports partitions that can be suspended  Before planning to suspend a logical partition, verify that the server supports partitions that are capable of partition suspension by using the  (). To verify that the server supports partitions that are capable of partition suspension, complete the following steps:  If  is , the server is capable of suspending a partition. If  is , the server is not capable of suspending a partition. Parent topic:          
 Enabling the suspension capability of a logical partition  You can enable the suspension capability of a logical partition by using the  (), after the logical partition is created. To enable the suspension capability, ensure that  logical partition is either in the  or   states.  While suspending a logical partition, the  stores the data about the switching mode in the reserved storage device that was used to store the configuration data.  To enable the suspension capability of a logical partition after the creation of the logical partition by using the , follow these steps:  If  check box is selected, the logical partition is suspend-capable.  If  check box is not selected, the logical partition is not suspend-capable. To enable the suspension capability of the logical partition, select the  check box.The  validates whether the logical partition is suitable for suspension by evaluating against all resource and configuration restrictions. If the validation succeeds, the logical partition is successfully enabled for suspension. If the validation fails, error messages are shown for your appropriate action.  When the logical partition is in the Running state, and when the partition is suspend-capable, you must not dynamically add restricted resources like dedicated I/O resources, Host Ethernet Adapter, or Host Connection Adapters to the suspend-capable logical partition.  Parent topic:          
 Configuring the  for the VSN capability If you are using the  () Version 7 Release 7.7.0, or later, you can use Virtual Station Interface (VSI) profiles with virtual Ethernet adapters in logical partitions and assign the Virtual Ethernet Port Aggregator (VEPA) switching mode to virtual Ethernet switches. When you use the Virtual Ethernet Bridge (VEB) switching mode in virtual Ethernet switches, the traffic between logical partitions is not visible to the external switches. However, when you use the VEPA switching mode, the traffic between logical partitions is visible to the external switches. This visibility helps you to use features such as security that are supported by the advanced switching technology. Automated VSI discovery and configuration with the external Ethernet bridges simplifies the switch configuration for the virtual interfaces that are created with logical partitions. The profile-based VSI management policy definition provides flexibility during configuration and maximizes the benefits of automation.  The configuration requirements on the  () to use the VSN capability follow: At least one  logical partition that is servicing the virtual switch must be active and must support the VEPA switching mode. The external switches that are connected to the shared Ethernet adapter must support the VEPA switching mode. The  daemon must be running on the  and must be managing the shared Ethernet adapter. From the  command-line interface, run the  command  to change the value of the lldpsvc attribute of the shared Ethernet adapter device to yes. The default value of the lldpsvc attribute is no. Run the  command to notify the change to the running  daemon. The lldpsvc attribute must be set to the default value before you remove the shared Ethernet adapter. Otherwise, removal of the shared Ethernet adapter fails. For redundancy shared Ethernet adapter setup, the trunk adapters might be attached to a virtual switch that is set to the VEPA mode. In this case, attach the control channel adapters of the shared Ethernet adapter to another virtual switch that is always set to the virtual Ethernet bridging (VEB) mode. The shared Ethernet adapter that is in the high availability mode does not work when the control channel adapter that is associated with the virtual switches is in the VEPA mode.  To use VSN capability, you cannot configure a shared Ethernet adapter to use link aggregation or an Etherchannel device as the physical adapter. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Verifying that the server uses the virtual server network Before planning to enable the virtual server network (VSN), verify that the server uses VSN by using the  (). As of  Version 7 Release 7.7.0, you can assign the Virtual Ethernet Port Aggregator (VEPA) switching mode to virtual Ethernet switches that are used by the virtual Ethernet adapters of the logical partitions. The VEPA switching mode uses the features that are supported by the advanced virtual Ethernet switch technology. A logical partition whose virtual Ethernet adapters use virtual switches that are enabled with the VEPA switching mode, uses VSN.  To verify that the server uses VSN, complete the following steps:  If  is True, the server uses VSN. If  is False, the server does not use VSN.  Parent topic:          
 Changing the virtual switch mode setting When the virtual switch is created, the default setting is the Virtual Ethernet Bridging (VEB) mode. You can change the virtual switch mode to Virtual Ethernet Port Aggregation (VEPA) by using the  (). To change the virtual switch mode setting, complete the following steps: Parent topic:          
 Suspending a logical partition  You can suspend a logical partition by using the  (), after the logical partition is created.  Ensure that the logical partition is in the running state. The logical partition must also be capable of suspension.  While suspending a logical partition, the  stores the data about the switching mode in the reserved storage device that was used to store the configuration data.  To suspend a logical partition after the creation of the logical partition by using the , follow these steps:  The suspend operation fails if the partition that you want to suspend has virtual storage adapters that are hosted by  () logical partitions with versions earlier than 2.2.1.4.  logical partitions with versions earlier than 2.2.1.4 are not capable of protecting the virtual storage devices of the suspended partition from accidental reassignment while the partition is suspended. To protect the virtual storage devices of the suspended partition, all  partitions hosting the devices must be capable of reporting virtual storage device usage of suspended partitions. You can suspend a partition that is hosted by a  with a version earlier than 2.2.1.4  by using the  command, and with the protectstorage option set to a value of 2, by using the . When using the  command to suspend a partition, you must ensure the integrity of the storage devices of the partition while the partition is suspended. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Recovering a suspended logical partition  When the suspend or resume operation has failed, the logical partition might be in an invalid state. You can then recover a suspended logical partition by using the  ().  To recover a suspended logical partition by using the , follow these steps:   The recovery process performs the cleanup operation and moves the logical partition into a valid state. Parent topic:          
 Assigning a single root I/O virtualization logical port to a logical partition You can assign a single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) logical port to a logical partition by using the  ().  To assign an SR-IOV logical port, complete the following steps:   The sum of the capacity values for all the configured logical ports on a physical port must be less than or equal to 100%. To minimize the configuration effort when you add more logical ports, you can reserve some capacity for the additional  logical ports.   The  mode is used only for adapter diagnostics. The  option is disabled unless the logical port is used as the physical device for bridging virtual Ethernet adapters on client partitions.   Specify a value of zero to not use a Port VLAN ID.     If you select  option in the  area of the  tab, the  and  options are not available   You can specify a value 0 - 7. Parent topic:          
 Creating a logical partition with synchronization of the current configuration  You can create  logical partition with synchronization of the current configuration capability by using the  ().  Prerequisites and assumptionsEnsure that the following prerequisite tasks have been completed before you start the configuration steps: The  is set up and configured. For instructions, see . You read and understand the . You completed the tasks recommended for logical partition planning. For instructions, see . You removed the system from the manufacturing default configuration and moved the physical hardware to support a partitioned configuration. For instructions, see . You have logged in to the  with one of the following user roles: Super administrator Operator  Ensure that the  is at Version 7 Release 7.8.0, or later.  Configuration stepsEnsure that all the prerequisites have been completed before proceeding with configuration steps. To create a logical partition with synchronization of the current configuration profile capability, complete the following steps: In the navigation pane, open  and click . In the work pane, select the managed system.  From the  menu, click . From the list for the  list, select .  Follow the steps in the Create Logical Partition wizard to create the logical partition. Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Enabling the synchronization of the current configuration capability You can enable the synchronization of the current configuration capability on a logical partition by using the  (), after the logical partition is created. Before you plan to enable the feature, ensure that the  is at Version 7 Release 7.8.0, is later.  To enable the synchronization of the current configuration capability on a logical partition after the logical partition is created by using the , complete the following:  When this option is selected, the partition profile is always synchronized with the last activated partition profile. Parent topic:          
 Enabling and disabling a Virtual Trusted Platform Module on a logical partition  You can enable a Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) on a logical partition by using the  (), after the logical partition is created.  To enable a VTPM, ensure that  or a  () logical partition is either in the  or  states.  To enable a VTPM on a logical partition, complete the following steps:  If the  check box is selected, the logical partition is enabled for VTPM.  If the  check box is not selected, the logical partition is not enabled for VTPM. To enable a VTPM on the logical partition, select the  check box. If you dynamically enable a VTPM on a logical partition, the VTPM function is activated only at the next logical partition activation. However, disabling a VTPM takes effect immediately. To dynamically disable a VTPM, log on to the ,  or  logical partition and disable the Trusted Computing Services daemon (tcsd) by using the  command. When the  software is stopped, the device must be removed from the  logical partition by using the  command. After the device is successfully deleted from the  logical partition, use the  to clear the VTPM check box from the properties of the partition. This completely removes the device and deletes all stored data that is associated with the VTPM. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Creating a logical partition with Virtual Trusted Platform capability  You can create an  logical partition with Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) capability by using the  ().  Version 7.7.4 or later, provides an option to enable a VTPM on the logical partition when the logical partition is created. The  also provides an option to enable a VTPM on a running logical partition.  Prerequisites and assumptionsEnsure that the following prerequisite tasks have been completed and are operational before you start the configuration steps: The  is set up and configured. For instructions, see . You read and understand the . You completed the tasks recommended for logical partition planning. For instructions, see . You removed the system from the manufacturing default configuration and moved the physical hardware to support a partitioned configuration. For instructions, see . You verified that the server has logical partition support for VTPM. For instructions, see You can also enable the VTPM on a logical partition after logical partition creation. For instructions, see  You have logged in to the  with one of the following user roles: Super administrator Operator  Configuration stepsEnsure that all the prerequisites have been completed before proceeding with configuration steps. To create a VTPM-capable logical partition on your server by using the , complete the following steps: In the navigation pane, open  and click . In the work pane, select the managed system.  Click the  button, and click . Select the  check box. Follow the steps in the Create Logical Partition wizard to create a  logical partition that is enabled for VTPM and to create a partition profile. Parent topic:          
 Verifying that the server supports Virtual Trusted Platform Module  Before planning to enable a Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) on a logical partition, verify that the server supports VTPM by using the  (). To verify that the server supports partitions that are capable of VTPM, complete the following steps:  If the  entry in the table is , the server supports logical partitions that are capable of VTPM. If the  entry in the table is , the server cannot support logical partitions that are capable of VTPM. Parent topic:          
 Viewing the Virtual Trusted Platform Module settings You can view the advanced Virtual Trusted Platform Module (VTPM) settings by using the  (). To view the advanced VTPM settings, complete the following steps:  Maximum supported VTPM partitions Available VTPM capable partitions VTPM version (this is not related to the Trusted Computing Group Trusted Platform Module version numbering)  Trusted system key length (in bits) Trusted system key status Parent topic:          
 Synchronizing the virtual switch mode  When a  () logical partition is in the shutdown state during the activation of a logical partition or when the external switch is downgraded, the Virtual Station Interface (VSI) profile type information is not updated in the .  When any of the  logical partitions that are servicing the virtual switch or when the adjacent connected virtual switches are not in the current switching mode, you must synchronize the switching mode. You can synchronize the switching mode by using the  (). To synchronize the virtual switch mode, complete the following steps: Parent topic:          
 Creating additional partition profiles You can create more than one partition profile for a logical partition using the  (). Each partition profile can specify a different amount of system resources and different logical partition startup attributes. You can change the attributes used by a logical partition by shutting down the logical partition and restarting the logical partition using a different partition profile. Before you create a partition profile, ensure that you have the  () output available. Use the output from this tool as a guide as you start to create partition profiles on your server. You plan to create a partition profile that uses all of the system resources.  You plan to configure  for that partition profile.  To create a partition profile using the , follow these steps: Activate the logical partition. When you activate the logical partition, the  assigns a pair of worldwide port names (WWPNs) to the virtual fibre channel adapter. For instructions, see . Restart the  (that provides the connection to a physical fibre channel adapter) or run the  command. This enables the  to recognize the WWPNs of the virtual fibre channel adapter on the client logical partition For instructions, see . Assign the virtual fibre channel adapter on the client logical partition to a physical port of a physical fibre channel adapter. For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Entering the activation code for  You can enable  for a server by entering an activation code on the  (). When you enable , you can configure the logical partitions that run on the server to compress their memory and thus expand their memory capacities. Before you start, complete the following prerequisite tasks:Complete the required preparation tasks for  and ensure that your configuration meets the configuration requirements for . For instructions, see . Verify that you have an activation code. You can obtain an activation code from your IBM® Sales Representative or the Capacity on Demand Web site. To obtain an activation code from the Capacity on Demand Web site, complete the following steps:Go to: . Enter the system type and serial number of the server for which you need the activation code. Record the activation code that is displayed on the Web site. To enter the activation code for , complete the following steps by using the :  The Enter Activated Code window is displayed.  The server Properties window is displayed.  If the capability is set to False, then  is not enabled on the server. Obtain a valid activation code to enable  on the server. After you enable  on the server, you can configure logical partitions to use . For instructions, see . Parent topic:          
 Preparing to configure  To prepare to configure  for a logical partition, complete the following tasks:  The server on which the logical partition runs is a  processor-based server. The  operating system that runs in the logical partition is at version 6.1 with Technology Level 4 and Service Pack 2, or later. The  that manages the server is at version 7, release 7.1.0, or later. Optional:  The planning tool monitors your current workload for a specified amount of time and generates a report. The report provides the following information: Several configuration possibilities for  on the logical partition. Recommendation for an initial configuration for  on the logical partition. For each configuration possibility, and the recommended configuration, the planning tool provides the following configuration information: The amount of memory to assign to the logical partition. The amount of additional processing resources to assign to the logical partition. The expansion factor to set for the logical partition. The amount of memory that you save by configuring  on the logical partition. This statistic can help you determine whether  is right for your workload. Some workloads benefit more from  than others. After you prepare to configure , you can enable  on the server by entering the activation code. For instructions, see .  Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
  for  logical partitions When you enable  for an  logical partition, you increase the memory capacity of the logical partition without assigning more memory to it. The operating system compresses a portion of the memory that the logical partition uses. This compression creates space for more data and expanding the memory capacity of the logical partition. When you expand the memory capacity of a logical partition, you enable the logical partition to do more work with the same amount of memory. This can be especially useful when you want to increase the workload of a logical partition, but cannot assign more memory to the logical partition. When you expand the memory capacity of several logical partitions on a server, you increase the overall memory capacity of the server. This can be especially useful when you want to consolidate more workloads onto the server by creating more logical partitions. You configure the degree of memory expansion that you want to achieve for a logical partition by setting the  factor in a partition profile of the logical partition. The expansion factor is a multiplier of the amount of memory that is assigned to the logical partition. For example, if the amount of memory that is assigned to a logical partition is 25 GB and the expansion factor is set to 2.0, then the desired memory capacity of the logical partition is 50 GB. In this situation, the operating system attempts to compress data such that 50 GB of data fits into 25 GB of memory. After you set the expansion factor, you can monitor the performance of the logical partition and then dynamically change the expansion factor to improve performance. When you configure a logical partition to use , you might also must configure some additional processing resources for the logical partition. The operating system uses the additional processing resources to perform the memory compression. The amount of processing resources that the logical partition requires depends on the workload that is running in the logical partition and the expansion factor that you set for the logical partition. You can configure  for logical partitions that use dedicated memory and logical partitions that use shared memory. Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Configuring  for  logical partitions You can configure  for an  logical partition by using the  (). Configuring  for a logical partition compresses the memory of the logical partition and thus expands its memory capacity. You can configure  for logical partitions that use dedicated memory and logical partitions that use shared memory. Before you start, complete the following tasks:  Complete the required preparation tasks for  and ensure that your configuration meets the configuration requirements for . For instructions, see . Enter the required activation code to enable  on the server. For instructions, see . To configure  for a logical partition, complete the following steps by using the :  The Managed Profiles window is displayed.  For instructions, see  and . After you configure  for the logical partition, monitor the performance of the workload and adjust the configuration, if necessary. For instructions, see . Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Configuring virtual resources for logical partitions You can use the  () to configure virtual resources such as virtual Ethernet adapters, , and shared processor pools. Configure virtual resources to help optimize the use of physical system resources. You can configure  for an  logical partition by using the  (). Configuring  for a logical partition compresses the memory of the logical partition and thus expands its memory capacity. You can configure a virtual Ethernet adapter dynamically for a running logical partition by using the  (). Doing so will connect the logical partition to a virtual LAN (VLAN). You can dynamically change the VLAN IDs of a virtual Ethernet adapter for a running logical partition by using the  ().  You can dynamically configure the Quality of Service (QoS) priority of a virtual Ethernet adapter of a running logical partition by using the  (). You can prioritize the logical partition network traffic by specifying the value of IEEE 802.1Q priority level for each virtual Ethernet adapter. The  version 7 release 7.2.0 or later, introduces  controls and policies for MAC address assignment to virtual Ethernet adapters and to logical Host Ethernet Adapter (LHEA).  By using the  (), you can configure the MAC address controls of a virtual Ethernet adapter of a logical partition during logical partition creation, during partition profile modification, or when dynamically adding a virtual Ethernet adapter. You can also specify controls to MAC address overrides that are specified at the operating-system level.  You can configure a virtual Fibre Channel adapter dynamically for a running logical partition using the  ().  You can use a  () to configure the properties of each physical port on a  (HEA). These properties include port speed, duplex mode, maximum packet size, flow control setting, and the promiscuous logical partition for unicast packets. The physical port properties are also used by the logical ports that are associated with each physical port. HEAs are also known as Integrated Virtual Ethernet adapters (IVE adapters). If your managed system supports more than one shared processor pool, you can use the  () to configure shared processor pools on your managed system in addition to the default shared processor pool. These additional shared processor pools allow you to limit the processor usage of the logical partitions that belong to the shared processor pools. All shared processor pools other than the default shared processor pool must be configured before you can assign logical partitions to these shared processor pools. You can configure the size of the shared memory pool, assign paging space devices to the shared memory pool, and assign one or two  () logical partitions (that provide access to the paging space devices) to the shared memory pool using the  (). If your managed system has  a  (HEA), you can set up a logical partition to use HEA resources by using the  () to create a logical  (LHEA) for the logical partition. A logical  (LHEA) is a representation of a physical HEA on a logical partition. An LHEA allows the logical partition to connect to external networks directly through the HEA. HEAs are also known as Integrated Virtual Ethernet adapters (IVE adapters). You can create a  on the  () logical partition by using the . You can use the  () to create a virtual disk on your managed system. Virtual disks are also known as logical volumes. You can use the  to create a volume-group-based  storage pool on your managed system. You can enable  for a server by entering an activation code on the  (). When you enable , you can configure the logical partitions that run on the server to compress their memory and thus expand their memory capacities. If you use more than one shared processor pool on your managed system, you can use the  () to reassign logical partitions from one shared processor pool to another shared processor pool on your managed system.  Parent topic:          
 Configuring a virtual Ethernet adapter You can configure a virtual Ethernet adapter dynamically for a running logical partition by using the  (). Doing so will connect the logical partition to a virtual LAN (VLAN). You can dynamically configure a virtual Ethernet adapter for a  logical partition only if the following conditions are met: A  distribution that supports dynamic partitioning is installed on the  logical partition. Distributions that support dynamic partitioning include  and later versions.  The DynamicRM tool package is installed on the  logical partition. To download the DynamicRM tool package, see the  Web site. If you plan to configure an Ethernet adapter for a logical partition that uses shared memory (hereafter referred to as a shared memory partition), you might need to adjust the amount of I/O entitled memory assigned to the shared memory partition before you configure the adapter:If the I/O entitled memory mode of the shared memory partition is set to the auto mode, you do not need to take action. When you configure the new Ethernet adapter, the  automatically increases the I/O entitled memory of the shared memory partition to accommodate the new adapter. If the I/O entitled memory mode of the shared memory partition is set to the manual mode, you must increase the I/O entitled memory that is assigned to the shared memory partition to accommodate the new adapter. For instructions, see . To configure a virtual Ethernet adapter dynamically for a running logical partition using the , follow these steps:  The Port VLAN ID allows the virtual Ethernet adapter to communicate with other virtual Ethernet adapters that have the same Port VLAN ID.   If you leave this option unchecked and you want this logical partition to connect to multiple virtual networks, you must create multiple virtual adapters by creating additional VLAN IDs.  You can assign multiple VLAN IDs to a configured virtual Ethernet adapter that is used by a running logical partition without rebooting the logical partition. For a running logical partition, you can remove or edit the VLAN IDs, and configure the Quality of Service (QoS) priority without restarting the logical partition.  After you have finished, access any existing partition profiles for the logical partition and add the virtual Ethernet adapters to those partition profiles. The virtual Ethernet adapter is lost if you shut down the logical partition and activate that logical partition using a partition profile that does not have the virtual Ethernet adapter in it. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:         
 Virtual Ethernet Virtual Ethernet allows logical partitions to communicate with each other without having to assign physical hardware to the logical partitions.  You can create virtual Ethernet adapters on each logical partition and connect these virtual Ethernet adapters to virtual LANs. TCP/IP communications over these virtual LANs is routed through the server firmware.  A virtual Ethernet adapter provides similar function as a 1 Gb Ethernet adapter. A logical partition can use virtual Ethernet adapters to establish multiple high-speed interpartition connections within a single managed system.  Virtual Ethernet adapters are connected to an IEEE 802.1q (VLAN)-style virtual Ethernet switch. Using this switch function, logical partitions can communicate with each other by using virtual Ethernet adapters and assigning VLAN IDs that enable them to share a common logical network. The virtual Ethernet adapters are created and the VLAN ID assignments are done using the  (). The system transmits packets by copying the packet directly from the memory of the sender logical partition to the receive buffers of the receiver logical partition without any intermediate buffering of the packet. You can configure an Ethernet bridge between the virtual LAN and a physical Ethernet adapter that is owned by a   logical partition. The logical partitions on the virtual LAN can communicate with an external Ethernet network through the Ethernet bridge. You can reduce the number of physical Ethernet adapters required for a managed system by routing external communications through the Ethernet bridge. The number of virtual Ethernet adapters allowed for each logical partition varies by operating system.    supports up to 256 virtual Ethernet adapters for each logical partition. Version 2.6 of the  kernel supports up to 32, 768 virtual Ethernet adapters for each logical partition. Each  logical partition can belong to a maximum of 4, 094 virtual LANs. Besides a Port VLAN ID, the number of additional VLAN ID values that can be assigned for each virtual Ethernet adapter is 20, which indicates that each virtual Ethernet adapter can be used to access 21 networks.  When the  is at a level earlier than  Version 7 Release 7.7.0 Service Pack 3 with MH01400, or  Version 7 Release 7.8.0 Service Pack 1, the number of additional VLAN ID values that can be assigned for each virtual Ethernet adapter is 19.  The  generates a locally administered Ethernet MAC address for the virtual Ethernet adapters so that these addresses do not conflict with physical Ethernet adapter MAC addresses. After a specific virtual Ethernet is enabled for a logical partition, a network device is created in the logical partition. This network device is named  logical partitions, where X represents sequentially assigned numbers. The user can then set up TCP/IP configuration similar to a physical Ethernet device to communicate with other logical partitions. If a virtual Ethernet adapter is set for checksum offload, the virtual Ethernet adapter cannot generate a checksum for any packet that the virtual Ethernet adapter sends to a multicast or broadcast MAC address.  Some managed systems contain a  (HEA). A  (HEA) is a physical Ethernet adapter that is integrated directly into the GX+ bus on a managed system. HEAs are also known as Integrated Virtual Ethernet adapters (IVE adapters). Unlike most other types of I/O devices, you can never assign the HEA itself to a logical partition. Instead, multiple logical partitions can connect directly to the HEA and use the HEA resources. This allows these logical partitions to access external networks through the HEA without having to go through an Ethernet bridge on another logical partition. You can enable and disable individual virtual Ethernet adapters by using the  (). You can use the  command to enable or disable a virtual Ethernet adapter. A particular logical partition can be removed from the network when the virtual Ethernet adapter is disabled. You can reconnect the logical partition to the network by enabling the virtual Ethernet adapter. To reconnect the logical partition, you must use a virtual Ethernet that is bridged by using a Shared Ethernet Adapter (SEA) in the  (). The status of the virtual Ethernet adapter can be queried at any time by using the  command. The disabled state persists during partition restart. Trunk adapters cannot be disabled. You must have super administrator or product engineer access to the  to enable or disable a virtual Ethernet adapter. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:         
 Virtual adapters With virtual adapters, you can connect logical partitions with each other without using physical hardware. Operating systems can display, configure, and use virtual adapters just like they can display, configure, and use physical adapters. Depending on the operating environment used by the logical partition, you can create virtual Ethernet adapters, virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapters, and virtual serial adapters for a logical partition. The system administrator uses the following tools to create virtual adapters:  () Adapters can be added while the system is running using dynamic partitioning. The virtual adapters are recorded in system inventory and management utilities. Converged location codes can be used to correlate operating-system level or partition-level software entities to adapters, such as eth0 and en0. Similarly, the Ethernet adapters are visible in the same way as physical Ethernet adapters. By default, virtual Ethernet Media Access Control (MAC) addresses are created from the locally administered range. Using the default MAC addresses, it is possible that different servers will have virtual Ethernet adapters with the same addresses. This situation can present a problem if multiple, virtual networks are bridged to the same physical network. If a server logical partition providing I/O for a client logical partition fails, the client logical partition might continue to function, depending on the significance of the hardware it is using. For example, if one logical partition is providing the paging volume for another logical partition, a failure of the logical partition providing that particular resource will be significant to the other logical partition.  However, if the shared resource is a tape drive, a failure of the server logical partition providing the resource will have only minimal effects on the client logical partition. Client support for virtual I/OThe following table summarizes operating system support for using virtual I/O devices. Client operating system Virtual console Virtual Ethernet Virtual disk Virtual optical Virtual tape Yes Yes Yes Yes, on HMC-managed systems, at least one  logical partition must be present Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  logical partitions support booting from virtual devices, including disk boot from virtual disk, network boot from virtual Ethernet, and tape boot from virtual tape. The firmware running in  logical partitions recognizes virtual I/O and can start the logical partition from virtual I/O. An IPL can be done either from the network over virtual Ethernet or from a device such as virtual disk or virtual CD. Server support for virtual I/OThe following table summarizes operating system support for providing virtual I/O to logical partitions. Server Virtual optical Virtual console Virtual disk Virtual tape Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No No Yes Yes Yes Yes  provides SCSI disk, shared Ethernet, virtual optical The  also provides a virtual console to  logical partitions.  provides disk, CD, tape, and console functions to logical partitions that use  resources.  uses standard network server storage and network server descriptions to provide disk, CD, and tape resources to other logical partitions. An  logical partition cannot simultaneously provide virtual resources to other logical partitions and use virtual resources provided by another  logical partition or by the  logical partition.  To configure virtual I/O for the logical partitions on your managed system, you must create virtual I/O adapters on the  or . Virtual I/O adapters are usually created when you create your logical partitions. Alternatively, you can add virtual I/O adapters to running logical partitions using dynamic partitioning. After you create a virtual I/O adapter, you can then access the operating system used by the logical partition and complete the configuration of the virtual I/O adapter in the operating system software. For  partitions, virtual adapters are listed in the device tree. The device tree contains  adapters, not the devices under the adapter. Logical A logical  (LHEA) is a special type of virtual adapter. Even though an LHEA is a virtual resource, an LHEA can exist only if a physical , or Integrated Virtual Ethernet, provides its resources to the LHEA. Virtual Ethernet allows logical partitions to communicate with each other without having to assign physical hardware to the logical partitions.  With N_Port ID Virtualization (NPIV), you can configure the managed system so that multiple logical partitions can access independent physical storage through the same physical Fibre Channel adapter. Virtual SCSI (Small Computer Systems Interface) adapters provide one logical partition with the ability to use storage I/O (disk, CD, and tape) that is owned by another logical partition. Virtual serial adapters provide a point-to-point connection from one logical partition to another, or from the  () to each logical partition on the managed system. Virtual serial adapters are used primarily to establish terminal connections to logical partitions.  Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related tasks:         
 Virtual SCSI adapters Virtual SCSI (Small Computer Systems Interface) adapters provide one logical partition with the ability to use storage I/O (disk, CD, and tape) that is owned by another logical partition.  A  client adapter in one logical partition can communicate with a  server adapter in another logical partition. The  client adapter allows a logical partition to access a storage device being made available by the other logical partition. The logical partition owning the hardware is the server logical partition, and the logical partition that uses the virtualized hardware is the client logical partition. With this arrangement, the system can have many server logical partitions. For example, logical partition A provides disk space to logical partitions B, C, and D. A logical partition can simultaneously use virtual I/O from more than one logical partition. Therefore, using the example, while logical partition A provides disk space to logical partitions B, C, and D, logical partitions A and B can use a tape drive connected to logical partition D. In this case, A is serving D for disk space, while D is serving A for the tape device. Virtual SCSI allows you to simplify the backup and maintenance operations on your managed system. When you back up the data on the server logical partition, you also back up the data on each client logical partition.  Virtual SCSI server adapters can be created only in logical partitions of type Virtual I/O Server. The virtual SCSI client device driver is not capable of storage protection using Redundant Arrays of Independent Disks (RAID).  While the  operating system allows software RAID protection of virtual disks, the recommended technique for protecting disk storage is to configure the virtual I/O storage server to perform the disk protection. For -managed systems, virtual SCSI adapters are created and assigned to logical partitions using partition profiles. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Virtual serial adapters Virtual serial adapters provide a point-to-point connection from one logical partition to another, or from the  () to each logical partition on the managed system. Virtual serial adapters are used primarily to establish terminal connections to logical partitions.  When you create a logical partition, the  automatically creates two virtual server serial adapters on the logical partition. These virtual server serial adapters allow you to establish a terminal connection to the logical partition through the . You can also create pairs of virtual serial adapters on logical partitions so that you can access and control one logical partition directly from another logical partition. For example, one logical partition uses the disk resources of another logical partition using virtual SCSI adapters. You can create a server serial adapter on the logical partition that uses the disk resources and a client serial adapter on the logical partition that owns the disk resources. This connection allows the logical partition that owns the disk resources to shut down the logical partition that uses the disk resources before you back up data on the logical partition that owns the disk resources. On -managed systems, virtual serial adapters are created and assigned to logical partitions using partition profiles. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 I/O devices I/O devices allow your managed system to gather, store, and transmit data. I/O devices are found in the server unit itself and in expansion units that are attached to the server. I/O devices can be embedded into the unit, or they can be installed into physical slots.  Not all types of I/O devices are supported for all operating systems or on all server models. For example, Switch Network Interface (SNI) adapters are supported only on certain server models.  Single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) allows virtualization of the physical ports of an adapter so that the ports can be shared by multiple partitions that are running simultaneously. To share the ports of an SR-IOV capable adapter, the adapter must first be enabled for the SR-IOV shared mode.  After an adapter is enabled for SR-IOV shared mode, SR-IOV logical ports can be assigned to logical partitions.   Some PCI adapters and embedded controllers require multiple PCI or PCI-E slots to be associated with them. Carefully review the PCI or PCI-E slot assignments for each logical partition to ensure that the slot configuration of the logical partition meets the adapter functional requirements. For details, see , and . With virtual adapters, you can connect logical partitions with each other without using physical hardware. Operating systems can display, configure, and use virtual adapters just like they can display, configure, and use physical adapters. Depending on the operating environment used by the logical partition, you can create virtual Ethernet adapters, virtual Small Computer Serial Interface (SCSI) adapters, and virtual serial adapters for a logical partition. The virtual OptiConnect feature provides high-speed interpartition communication within a managed system. The Virtual OptiConnect feature emulates external OptiConnect hardware by providing a virtual bus between logical partitions. You can add expansion units to many of the models to support additional features and devices. If you want to create logical partitions on your server, you must add an expansion unit that contains the additional hardware that you need for each logical partition. Parent topic:  Related tasks:         
 Managing PCI adapters See the following topics for the information about the PCI adapters for your system:For  system, see . For  system, see . For  system, see . For  system, see . For  system, see . For , see .         
 Managing PCI adapters for the  The following features are electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) Class B features. See the  in the Hardware Notices section.Feature Description 1912, 5736 PCI-X DDR 2.0 Dual Channel Ultra320 SCSI Adapter 1983, 5706 Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet PCI-X Adapter 1986, 5713 1 Gb iSCSI TOE PCI-X Adapter 2728 4-port USB PCIe Adapter 4764 PCI-X Cryptographic Coprocessor 4807 PCIe Cryptographic Coprocessor 5717 4-port 10/100/1000 Base-TX  Adapter 5732 10 Gb Ethernet-CX4  Adapter 5748  GXT145  Graphics Accelerator 5767 2-port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet  Adapter 5768 2-port Gb Ethernet-SX  Adapter 5769 10 Gb Ethernet-SR  Adapter 5772 10 Gb Ethernet-LR  Adapter 5785 4 Port Async EIA-232 PCIe Adapter EC2G and EL39 PCIe LP 2-Port 10 GbE SFN6122F Adapter  EC2H and EL3A PCIe LP 2-Port 10 GbE SFN5162F Adapter EC2J PCIe 2-Port 10 GbE SFN6122F Adapter EC2K PCIe 2-Port 10 GbE SFN5162F Adapter You can view and print a PDF of this information. Find technical information for specific adapters supported on your system. Adapters can be identified by their feature code (FC) or their custom card identification number (CCIN). Learn how to install the  device driver software for a PCI adapter. Learn about the rechargeable battery maintenance tasks that include displaying rechargeable battery information, forcing a rechargeable battery error, and replacing the rechargeable cache battery pack.  Related information:         
 Class B Notices The following Class B statements apply to features designated as electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) Class B in the feature installation information. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) statementThis equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a residential installation. This equipment generates, uses, and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful interference to radio communications. However, there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio or television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on, the user is encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures: Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna. Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver. Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected. Consult an IBM-authorized dealer or service representative for help. Properly shielded and grounded cables and connectors must be used in order to meet FCC emission limits. Proper cables and connectors are available from IBM-authorized dealers. IBM is not responsible for any radio or television interference caused by unauthorized changes or modifications to this equipment. Unauthorized changes or modifications could void the user's authority to operate this equipment.  This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC rules. Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) this device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including interference that may cause undesired operation.  Industry Canada Compliance StatementThis Class B digital apparatus complies with Canadian ICES-003. Avis de conformité à la réglementation d'Industrie CanadaCet appareil numérique de la classe B est conforme à la norme NMB-003 du Canada.  European Community Compliance StatementThis product is in conformity with the protection requirements of EU Council Directive 2004/108/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to electromagnetic compatibility. IBM cannot accept responsibility for any failure to satisfy the protection requirements resulting from a non-recommended modification of the product, including the fitting of non-IBM option cards.  This product has been tested and found to comply with the limits for Class B Information Technology Equipment according to European Standard EN 55022. The limits for Class B equipment were derived for typical residential environments to provide reasonable protection against interference with licensed communication equipment. European Community contact: IBM Deutschland GmbH Technical Regulations, Department M372 IBM-Allee 1, 71139 Ehningen, Germany  Tele: +49 7032 15 2941 email:  lugi@de.ibm.com VCCI Statement - Japan Japanese Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Confirmed Harmonics Guideline (products less than or equal to 20 A per phase) Japanese Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Confirmed Harmonics Guideline with Modifications (products greater than 20 A per phase) IBM Taiwan Contact Information Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) Statement - Korea Germany Compliance StatementDeutschsprachiger EU Hinweis:  Hinweis für Geräte der Klasse B EU-Richtlinie zur Elektromagnetischen Verträglichkeit Dieses Produkt entspricht den Schutzanforderungen der EU-Richtlinie 2004/108/EG zur Angleichung der Rechtsvorschriften über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit in den EU-Mitgliedsstaaten und hält die Grenzwerte der EN 55022 Klasse B ein.   Um dieses sicherzustellen, sind die Geräte wie in den Handbüchern beschrieben zu installieren und zu betreiben. Des Weiteren dürfen auch nur von der IBM empfohlene Kabel angeschlossen werden. IBM übernimmt keine Verantwortung für die Einhaltung der Schutzanforderungen, wenn das Produkt ohne Zustimmung von IBM verändert bzw. wenn Erweiterungskomponenten von Fremdherstellern ohne Empfehlung von IBM gesteckt/eingebaut werden. Deutschland: Einhaltung des Gesetzes über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit von Geräten Dieses Produkt entspricht dem “Gesetz über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit von Geräten (EMVG)“. Dies ist die Umsetzung der EU-Richtlinie 2004/108/EG in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland.  Zulassungsbescheinigung laut dem Deutschen Gesetz über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit von Geräten (EMVG) (bzw. der EMC EG Richtlinie 2004/108/EG) für Geräte der Klasse B Dieses Gerät ist berechtigt, in Übereinstimmung mit dem Deutschen EMVG das EG-Konformitätszeichen - CE - zu führen. Verantwortlich für die Einhaltung der EMV Vorschriften ist der Hersteller: International Business Machines Corp. New Orchard Road Armonk, New York 10504 Tel: 914-499-1900 Der verantwortliche Ansprechpartner des Herstellers in der EU ist: IBM Deutschland GmbH Technical Regulations, Abteilung M372 IBM-Allee 1, 71139 Ehningen, Germany  Tel: +49 7032 15 2941 email:  lugi@de.ibm.com Generelle Informationen:  Das Gerät erfüllt die Schutzanforderungen nach EN 55024 und EN 55022 Klasse B. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Hardware Notices The legal notices pertain to Power Systems™ documentation. This information was developed for products and services offered in the U.S.A. This material may be available from IBM in other languages. However, you may be required to own a copy of the product or product version in that language in order to access it. IBM may not offer the products, services, or features discussed in this document in other countries. Consult your local IBM representative for information on the products and services currently available in your area. Any reference to an IBM product, program, or service is not intended to state or imply that only that IBM product, program, or service may be used. Any functionally equivalent product, program, or service that does not infringe any IBM intellectual property right may be used instead. However, it is the user's responsibility to evaluate and verify the operation of any non-IBM product, program, or service. IBM may have patents or pending patent applications covering subject matter described in this document. The furnishing of this document does not grant you any license to these patents. You can send license inquiries, in writing, to:  IBM Director of Licensing IBM Corporation North Castle Drive Armonk, NY 10504-1785 U.S.A.  The following paragraph does not apply to the United Kingdom or any other country where such provisions are inconsistent with local law:  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION PROVIDES THIS PUBLICATION "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Some states do not allow disclaimer of express or implied warranties in certain transactions, therefore, this statement may not apply to you. This information could include technical inaccuracies or typographical errors. Changes are periodically made to the information herein; these changes will be incorporated in new editions of the publication. IBM may make improvements and/or changes in the product(s) and/or the program(s) described in this publication at any time without notice.  Any references in this information to non-IBM Web sites are provided for convenience only and do not in any manner serve as an endorsement of those Web sites. The materials at those Web sites are not part of the materials for this IBM product and use of those Web sites is at your own risk. IBM may use or distribute any of the information you supply in any way it believes appropriate without incurring any obligation to you. Any performance data contained herein was determined in a controlled environment. Therefore, the results obtained in other operating environments may vary significantly. Some measurements may have been made on development-level systems and there is no guarantee that these measurements will be the same on generally available systems. Furthermore, some measurements may have been estimated through extrapolation. Actual results may vary. Users of this document should verify the applicable data for their specific environment. Information concerning non-IBM products was obtained from the suppliers of those products, their published announcements or other publicly available sources. IBM has not tested those products and cannot confirm the accuracy of performance, compatibility or any other claims related to non-IBM products. Questions on the capabilities of non-IBM products should be addressed to the suppliers of those products. All statements regarding IBM's future direction or intent are subject to change or withdrawal without notice, and represent goals and objectives only. All IBM prices shown are IBM's suggested retail prices, are current and are subject to change without notice. Dealer prices may vary. This information is for planning purposes only. The information herein is subject to change before the products described become available. This information contains examples of data and reports used in daily business operations. To illustrate them as completely as possible, the examples include the names of individuals, companies, brands, and products. All of these names are fictitious and any similarity to the names and addresses used by an actual business enterprise is entirely coincidental. If you are viewing this information in softcopy, the photographs and color illustrations may not appear. The drawings and specifications contained herein shall not be reproduced in whole or in part without the written permission of IBM®. IBM has prepared this information for use with the specific machines indicated. IBM makes no representations that it is suitable for any other purpose. IBM's computer systems contain mechanisms designed to reduce the possibility of undetected data corruption or loss. This risk, however, cannot be eliminated. Users who experience unplanned outages, system failures, power fluctuations or outages, or component failures must verify the accuracy of operations performed and data saved or transmitted by the system at or near the time of the outage or failure. In addition, users must establish procedures to ensure that there is independent data verification before relying on such data in sensitive or critical operations. Users should periodically check IBM's support websites for updated information and fixes applicable to the system and related software. Homologation statementThis product may not be certified in your country for connection by any means whatsoever to interfaces of public telecommunications networks. Further certification may be required by law prior to making any such connection. Contact an IBM representative or reseller for any questions. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Class A Notices The following Class A statements apply to the IBM® servers that contain the POWER7® processor and its features unless designated as electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) Class B in the feature information. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) statement This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class A digital device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference when the equipment is operated in a commercial environment. This equipment generates, uses, and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the instruction manual, may cause harmful interference to radio communications. Operation of this equipment in a residential area is likely to cause harmful interference, in which case the user will be required to correct the interference at his own expense. Properly shielded and grounded cables and connectors must be used in order to meet FCC emission limits. IBM is not responsible for any radio or television interference caused by using other than recommended cables and connectors or by unauthorized changes or modifications to this equipment. Unauthorized changes or modifications could void the user's authority to operate the equipment. This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC rules. Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) this device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including interference that may cause undesired operation. Industry Canada Compliance StatementThis Class A digital apparatus complies with Canadian ICES-003. Avis de conformité à la réglementation d'Industrie CanadaCet appareil numérique de la classe A est conforme à la norme NMB-003 du Canada.  European Community Compliance StatementThis product is in conformity with the protection requirements of EU Council Directive 2004/108/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to electromagnetic compatibility. IBM cannot accept responsibility for any failure to satisfy the protection requirements resulting from a non-recommended modification of the product, including the fitting of non-IBM option cards. This product has been tested and found to comply with the limits for Class A Information Technology Equipment according to European Standard EN 55022. The limits for Class A equipment were derived for commercial and industrial environments to provide reasonable protection against interference with licensed communication equipment. European Community contact: IBM Deutschland GmbH Technical Regulations, Department M372 IBM-Allee 1, 71139 Ehningen, Germany  Tele: +49 7032 15 2941 email:  lugi@de.ibm.com  This is a Class A product. In a domestic environment, this product may cause radio interference, in which case the user may be required to take adequate measures. VCCI Statement - JapanThe following is a summary of the VCCI Japanese statement in the box above:  This is a Class A product based on the standard of the VCCI Council. If this equipment is used in a domestic environment, radio interference may occur, in which case, the user may be required to take corrective actions. Japanese Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Confirmed Harmonics Guideline (products less than or equal to 20 A per phase) Japanese Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Confirmed Harmonics Guideline with Modifications (products greater than 20 A per phase) Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) Statement - People's Republic of ChinaDeclaration: This is a Class A product. In a domestic environment this product may cause radio interference in which case the user may need to perform practical action. Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) Statement - TaiwanThe following is a summary of the EMI Taiwan statement above. Warning:  This is a Class A product.  In a domestic environment this product may cause radio interference in which case the user will be required to take adequate measures.  IBM Taiwan Contact Information: Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) Statement - Korea Germany Compliance StatementDeutschsprachiger EU Hinweis:  Hinweis für Geräte der Klasse A  EU-Richtlinie zur Elektromagnetischen Verträglichkeit Dieses Produkt entspricht den Schutzanforderungen der EU-Richtlinie 2004/108/EG zur Angleichung der Rechtsvorschriften über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit in den EU-Mitgliedsstaaten und hält die Grenzwerte der EN 55022 Klasse A ein.  Um dieses sicherzustellen, sind die Geräte wie in den Handbüchern beschrieben zu installieren und zu betreiben. Des Weiteren dürfen auch nur von der IBM empfohlene Kabel angeschlossen werden. IBM übernimmt keine Verantwortung für die Einhaltung der Schutzanforderungen, wenn das Produkt ohne Zustimmung von IBM verändert bzw. wenn Erweiterungskomponenten von Fremdherstellern ohne Empfehlung von IBM gesteckt/eingebaut werden. EN 55022 Klasse A Geräte müssen mit folgendem Warnhinweis versehen werden: "Warnung: Dieses ist eine Einrichtung der Klasse A. Diese Einrichtung kann im Wohnbereich Funk-Störungen verursachen; in diesem Fall kann vom Betreiber verlangt werden, angemessene Maßnahmen zu ergreifen und dafür aufzukommen." Deutschland: Einhaltung des Gesetzes über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit von Geräten Dieses Produkt entspricht dem “Gesetz über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit von Geräten (EMVG)“. Dies ist die Umsetzung der EU-Richtlinie 2004/108/EG in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland.  Zulassungsbescheinigung laut dem Deutschen Gesetz über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit von Geräten (EMVG) (bzw. der EMC EG Richtlinie 2004/108/EG) für Geräte der Klasse A Dieses Gerät ist berechtigt, in Übereinstimmung mit dem Deutschen EMVG das EG-Konformitätszeichen - CE - zu führen. Verantwortlich für die Einhaltung der EMV Vorschriften ist der Hersteller: International Business Machines Corp. New Orchard Road Armonk, New York 10504 Tel: 914-499-1900 Der verantwortliche Ansprechpartner des Herstellers in der EU ist: IBM Deutschland GmbH Technical Regulations, Abteilung M372 IBM-Allee 1, 71139 Ehningen, Germany  Tel: +49 7032 15 2941 email:  lugi@de.ibm.com Generelle Informationen:  Das Gerät erfüllt die Schutzanforderungen nach EN 55024 und EN 55022 Klasse A. Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) Statement - Russia Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 System overview for  processor-based systems This general overview information includes license agreements, warranty, safety notices, and server specifications about your system. This publication contains the agreement for Licensed Machine Code. This publication contains the hardware warranty statement and warranty service information. The legal notices pertain to Power Systems™ documentation. This publication contains all the required environmental notices for IBM Systems products in 26 languages. The environmental notices included are limitations, product recycling and disposal, product information, battery return program, flat panel display, refrigeration, water cooling system, and external power supplies. This publication contains all the information required by EU Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). The safety notices pertain to Power Systems documentation. This publication contains safety notices from IBM Systems documentation. The safety notices include danger and caution notices.  Anyone who plans, installs, operates, or services the system must be familiar with and understand the safety notices contained herein. Read the related safety information before beginning work. This publication contains the information needed by service providers to perform a safety inspection on the system.  This information contains the legal notices for IBM software products and privacy policy considerations.         
 License Agreement for Machine Code This publication contains the agreement for Licensed Machine Code. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 This publication contains the hardware warranty statement and warranty service information. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Environmental Notices This publication contains all the required environmental notices for IBM Systems products in 26 languages. The environmental notices included are limitations, product recycling and disposal, product information, battery return program, flat panel display, refrigeration, water cooling system, and external power supplies. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 REACH Article 33 Communication on Substances of Very High Concern in Articles This publication contains all the information required by EU Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH).  IBM provides the following communication documentation for cables or power cords for certain server and storage products. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Safety notices for Power Systems The safety notices pertain to Power Systems documentation. Safety notices may be printed throughout this guide: DANGER notices call attention to a situation that is potentially lethal or extremely hazardous to people. CAUTION notices call attention to a situation that is potentially hazardous to people because of some existing condition. Attention notices call attention to the possibility of damage to a program, device, system, or data.  World Trade safety informationSeveral countries require the safety information contained in product publications to be presented in their national languages. If this requirement applies to your country, a safety information booklet is included in the publications package shipped with the product. The booklet contains the safety information in your national language with references to the U.S. English source. Before using a U.S. English publication to install, operate, or service this product, you must first become familiar with the related safety information in the booklet. You should also refer to the booklet any time you do not clearly understand any safety information in the U.S. English publications. German safety informationDas Produkt ist nicht für den Einsatz an Bildschirmarbeitsplätzen im Sinne § 2 der Bildschirmarbeitsverordnung geeignet. Laser safety informationIBM® servers can use I/O cards or features that are fiber-optic based and that utilize lasers or LEDs. Laser compliance IBM servers may be installed inside or outside of an IT equipment rack. DANGERWhen working on or around the system, observe the following precautions:Electrical voltage and current from power, telephone, and communication cables are hazardous. To avoid a shock hazard: Connect power to this unit only with the provided power cord.  Do not use the provided power cord for any other product. Do not open or service any power supply assembly. Do not connect or disconnect any cables or perform installation, maintenance, or reconfiguration of this product during an electrical storm. The product might be equipped with multiple power cords.  To remove all hazardous voltages, disconnect all power cords. Connect all power cords to a properly wired and grounded electrical outlet.  Ensure that the outlet supplies proper voltage and phase rotation according to the system rating plate. Connect any equipment that will be attached to this product to properly wired outlets. When possible, use one hand only to connect or disconnect signal cables. Never turn on any equipment when there is evidence of fire, water, or structural damage. Disconnect the attached power cords, telecommunications systems, networks, and modems before you open the device covers, unless instructed otherwise in the installation and configuration procedures. Connect and disconnect cables as described in the following procedures when installing, moving, or opening covers on this product or attached devices. To Disconnect: Turn off everything (unless instructed otherwise). Remove the power cords from the outlets. Remove the signal cables from the connectors. Remove all cables from the devices. To Connect: Turn off everything (unless instructed otherwise). Attach all cables to the devices. Attach the signal cables to the connectors. Attach the power cords to the outlets. Turn on the devices. DANGERObserve the following precautions when working on or around your IT rack system:Heavy equipment–personal injury or equipment damage might result if mishandled. Always lower the leveling pads on the rack cabinet. Always install stabilizer brackets on the rack cabinet. To avoid hazardous conditions due to uneven mechanical loading, always install the heaviest devices in the bottom of the rack cabinet.  Always install servers and optional devices starting from the bottom of the rack cabinet. Rack-mounted devices are not to be used as shelves or work spaces.  Do not place objects on top of rack-mounted devices. Each rack cabinet might have more than one power cord.  Be sure to disconnect all power cords in the rack cabinet when directed to disconnect power during servicing. Connect all devices installed in a rack cabinet to power devices installed in the same rack cabinet.  Do not plug a power cord from a device installed in one rack cabinet into a power device installed in a different rack cabinet. An electrical outlet that is not correctly wired could place hazardous voltage on the metal parts of the system or the devices that attach to the system.  It is the responsibility of the customer to ensure that the outlet is correctly wired and grounded to prevent an electrical shock. CAUTION Do not install a unit in a rack where the internal rack ambient temperatures will exceed the manufacturer's recommended ambient temperature for all your rack-mounted devices. Do not install a unit in a rack where the air flow is compromised.  Ensure that air flow is not blocked or reduced on any side, front, or back of a unit used for air flow through the unit. Consideration should be given to the connection of the equipment to the supply circuit so that overloading of the circuits does not compromise the supply wiring or overcurrent protection.  To provide the correct power connection to a rack, refer to the rating labels located on the equipment in the rack to determine the total power requirement of the supply circuit. (For sliding drawers.)   Do not pull out or install any drawer or feature if the rack stabilizer brackets are not attached to the rack. Do not pull out more than one drawer at a time.  The rack might become unstable if you pull out more than one drawer at a time. (For fixed drawers.) This drawer is a fixed drawer and must not be moved for servicing unless specified by the manufacturer.  Attempting to move the drawer partially or completely out of the rack might cause the rack to become unstable or cause the drawer to fall out of the rack.  (R001) CAUTION:Removing components from the upper positions in the rack cabinet improves rack stability during relocation.  Follow these general guidelines whenever you relocate a populated rack cabinet within a room or building: Reduce the weight of the rack cabinet by removing equipment starting at the top of the rack cabinet.  When possible, restore the rack cabinet to the configuration of the rack cabinet as you received it.  If this configuration is not known, you must observe the following precautions:Remove all devices in the 32U position and above. Ensure that the heaviest devices are installed in the bottom of the rack cabinet. Ensure that there are no empty U-levels between devices installed in the rack cabinet below the 32U level.    If the rack cabinet you are relocating is part of a suite of rack cabinets, detach the rack cabinet from the suite. Inspect the route that you plan to take to eliminate potential hazards. Verify that the route that you choose can support the weight of the loaded rack cabinet.  Refer to the documentation that comes with your rack cabinet for the weight of a loaded rack cabinet. Verify that all door openings are at least 760 x 230 mm (30 x 80 in.). Ensure that all devices, shelves, drawers, doors, and cables are secure. Ensure that the four leveling pads are raised to their highest position. Ensure that there is no stabilizer bracket installed on the rack cabinet during movement. Do not use a ramp inclined at more than 10 degrees. When the rack cabinet is in the new location, complete the following steps:Lower the four leveling pads. Install stabilizer brackets on the rack cabinet. If you removed any devices from the rack cabinet, repopulate the rack cabinet from the lowest position to the highest position. If a long-distance relocation is required, restore the rack cabinet to the configuration of the rack cabinet as you received it.  Pack the rack cabinet in the original packaging material, or equivalent.  Also lower the leveling pads to raise the casters off of the pallet and bolt the rack cabinet to the pallet.  (R002) (L001)  (L002)  (L003) or  All lasers are certified in the U.S. to conform to the requirements of DHHS 21 CFR Subchapter J for class 1 laser products. Outside the U.S., they are certified to be in compliance with IEC 60825 as a class 1 laser product. Consult the label on each part for laser certification numbers and approval information. CAUTION:This product might contain one or more of the following devices:  CD-ROM drive, DVD-ROM drive, DVD-RAM drive, or laser module, which are Class 1 laser products.  Note the following information:Do not remove the covers.  Removing the covers of the laser product could result in exposure to hazardous laser radiation.  There are no serviceable parts inside the device. Use of the controls or adjustments or performance of procedures other than those specified herein might result in hazardous radiation exposure. (C026) CAUTION:Data processing environments can contain equipment transmitting on system links with laser modules that operate at greater than Class 1 power levels.  For this reason, never look into the end of an optical fiber cable or open receptacle. (C027) CAUTION:This product contains a Class 1M laser.  Do not view directly with optical instruments. (C028) CAUTION:Some laser products contain an embedded Class 3A or Class 3B laser diode.  Note the following information:  laser radiation when open.  Do not stare into the beam, do not view directly with optical instruments, and avoid direct exposure to the beam. (C030) CAUTION:The battery contains lithium.  To avoid possible explosion, do not burn or charge the battery.Do Not: ___ Throw or immerse into water ___ Heat to more than 100°C (212°F) ___ Repair or disassemble Exchange only with the  part.  Recycle or discard the battery as instructed by local regulations.   Power and cabling information for NEBS (Network Equipment-Building System) GR-1089-COREThe following comments apply to the IBM servers that have been designated as conforming to NEBS (Network Equipment-Building System) GR-1089-CORE:   The equipment is suitable for installation in the following: Network telecommunications facilities Locations where the NEC (National Electrical Code) applies The intrabuilding ports of this equipment are suitable for connection to intrabuilding or unexposed wiring or cabling only. The intrabuilding ports of this equipment must not be metallically connected to the interfaces that connect to the OSP (outside plant) or its wiring. These interfaces are designed for use as intrabuilding interfaces only (Type 2 or Type 4 ports as described in GR-1089-CORE) and require isolation from the exposed OSP cabling. The addition of primary protectors is not sufficient protection to connect these interfaces metallically to OSP wiring.   All Ethernet cables must be shielded and grounded at both ends.  The ac-powered system does not require the use of an external surge protection device (SPD).   The dc-powered system employs an isolated DC return (DC-I) design. The DC battery return terminal shall not be connected to the chassis or frame ground.  Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
    This publication contains safety notices from IBM Systems documentation. The safety notices include danger and caution notices.  Anyone who plans, installs, operates, or services the system must be familiar with and understand the safety notices contained herein. Read the related safety information before beginning work. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
   This publication contains the information needed by service providers to perform a safety inspection on the system.  Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Notices This information contains the legal notices for IBM software products and privacy policy considerations. This information was developed for products and services offered in the U.S.A. This material may be available from IBM in other languages. However, you may be required to own a copy of the product or product version in that language in order to access it. IBM may not offer the products, services, or features discussed in this document in other countries. Consult your local IBM representative for information on the products and services currently available in your area. Any reference to an IBM product, program, or service is not intended to state or imply that only that IBM product, program, or service may be used. Any functionally equivalent product, program, or service that does not infringe any IBM intellectual property right may be used instead. However, it is the user's responsibility to evaluate and verify the operation of any non-IBM product, program, or service. IBM may have patents or pending patent applications covering subject matter described in this document. The furnishing of this document does not grant you any license to these patents. You can send license inquiries, in writing, to:  IBM Director of Licensing IBM Corporation North Castle Drive Armonk, NY 10504-1785 U.S.A.  For license inquiries regarding double-byte character set (DBCS) information, contact the IBM Intellectual Property Department in your country or send inquiries, in writing, to:  Intellectual Property Licensing Legal and Intellectual Property Law IBM Japan Ltd. 1623-14, Shimotsuruma, Yamato-shi Kanagawa 242-8502 Japan The following paragraph does not apply to the United Kingdom or any other country where such provisions are inconsistent with local law:  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION PROVIDES THIS PUBLICATION "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Some states do not allow disclaimer of express or implied warranties in certain transactions, therefore, this statement may not apply to you. This information could include technical inaccuracies or typographical errors. Changes are periodically made to the information herein; these changes will be incorporated in new editions of the publication. IBM may make improvements and/or changes in the product(s) and/or the program(s) described in this publication at any time without notice.  Any references in this information to non-IBM Web sites are provided for convenience only and do not in any manner serve as an endorsement of those Web sites. The materials at those Web sites are not part of the materials for this IBM product and use of those Web sites is at your own risk. IBM may use or distribute any of the information you supply in any way it believes appropriate without incurring any obligation to you. Licensees of this program who wish to have information about it for the purpose of enabling: (i) the exchange of information between independently created programs and other programs (including this one) and (ii) the mutual use of the information which has been exchanged, should contact: IBM CorporationDept. LRAS/Bldg. 90311501 Burnet RoadAustin, TX 78758-3400U.S.A.  Such information may be available, subject to appropriate terms and conditions, including in some cases, payment of a fee. The licensed program described in this document and all licensed material available for it are provided by IBM under terms of the IBM Customer Agreement, IBM International Program License Agreement, IBM License Agreement for Machine Code, or any equivalent agreement between us. Any performance data contained herein was determined in a controlled environment. Therefore, the results obtained in other operating environments may vary significantly. Some measurements may have been made on development-level systems and there is no guarantee that these measurements will be the same on generally available systems. Furthermore, some measurements may have been estimated through extrapolation. Actual results may vary. Users of this document should verify the applicable data for their specific environment. Information concerning non-IBM products was obtained from the suppliers of those products, their published announcements or other publicly available sources. IBM has not tested those products and cannot confirm the accuracy of performance, compatibility or any other claims related to non-IBM products. Questions on the capabilities of non-IBM products should be addressed to the suppliers of those products. All statements regarding IBM's future direction or intent are subject to change or withdrawal without notice, and represent goals and objectives only. All IBM prices shown are IBM's suggested retail prices, are current and are subject to change without notice. Dealer prices may vary. This information is for planning purposes only. The information herein is subject to change before the products described become available. This information contains examples of data and reports used in daily business operations. To illustrate them as completely as possible, the examples include the names of individuals, companies, brands, and products. All of these names are fictitious and any similarity to the names and addresses used by an actual business enterprise is entirely coincidental. COPYRIGHT LICENSE:  This information contains sample application programs in source language, which illustrate programming techniques on various operating platforms. You may copy, modify, and distribute these sample programs in any form without payment to IBM, for the purposes of developing, using, marketing or distributing application programs conforming to the application programming interface for the operating platform for which the sample programs are written. These examples have not been thoroughly tested under all conditions. IBM, therefore, cannot guarantee or imply reliability, serviceability, or function of these programs. The sample programs are provided "AS IS", without warranty of any kind. IBM® shall not be liable for any damages arising out of your use of the sample programs. Each copy or any portion of these sample programs or any derivative work, must include a copyright notice as follows:  © (your company name) (year). Portions of this code are derived from IBM Corp. Sample Programs. © Copyright IBM Corp. _enter the year or years_. If you are viewing this information in softcopy, the photographs and color illustrations may not appear. TrademarksIBM, the IBM logo, and ibm.com are trademarks or registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corp., registered in many jurisdictions worldwide. Other product and service names might be trademarks of IBM or other companies. A current list of IBM trademarks is available on the Web at "Copyright and trademark information" at . Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 The following features are electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) Class B features. See the  in the Hardware Notices section.Feature Description 1912, 5736 PCI-X DDR 2.0 Dual Channel Ultra320 SCSI Adapter 1983, 5706 Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet PCI-X Adapter 1986, 5713 1 Gb iSCSI TOE PCI-X Adapter 2728 4-port USB PCIe Adapter 4764 PCI-X Cryptographic Coprocessor 4807 PCIe Cryptographic Coprocessor 5717 4-port 10/100/1000 Base-TX  Adapter 5732 10 Gb Ethernet-CX4  Adapter 5748  GXT145  Graphics Accelerator 5767 2-port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet  Adapter 5768 2-port Gb Ethernet-SX  Adapter 5769 10 Gb Ethernet-SR  Adapter 5772 10 Gb Ethernet-LR  Adapter 5785 4 Port Async EIA-232 PCIe Adapter EC2G and EL39 PCIe LP 2-Port 10 GbE SFN6122F Adapter  EC2H and EL3A PCIe LP 2-Port 10 GbE SFN5162F Adapter EC2J PCIe 2-Port 10 GbE SFN6122F Adapter EC2K PCIe 2-Port 10 GbE SFN5162F Adapter The adapter information that is shown here is used during non-directed service activities. The information can be used to: Identify an adapter Find specific technical information about an adapter Where applicable, show special installation or cabling instructions Show signal names for the output-pins of the adapter connectors Where applicable, show the settings for switches or jumpers Adapters can be identified by their feature code (FC) or their custom-card identification number (CCIN). Normally, the CCIN number is labeled on the adapter.  The FRU part number (P/N) of your adapter might not match the FRU P/N listed in this information.  If the part numbers do not match, verify that the CCIN is the same. If the CCIN is same, the adapter has the same function and can be used in the same way. Adapters must be placed in specific peripheral component interconnect (PCI), PCI-X, or  (PCIe) slots to function correctly or optimally. See the  for system-specific information about which slots are available and which adapters can be placed in those slots. Find links to topics that cover Backplane daughter cards and RAID enablement cards. Learn about  (PCIe) adapters and slots. Electronic boards, adapters, media drives, and disk drives are sensitive to static electricity discharge. These devices are wrapped in antistatic bags to prevent damage. Learn about taking precautions to prevent damage to these devices from static electricity discharge. Learn about partitioning considerations with dual-slot and multi-adapter configurations. Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Related reference:         
 Backplane daughter cards and RAID enablement cards Find links to topics that cover Backplane daughter cards and RAID enablement cards. Backplane daughter cards and RAID enablement cards that are not in the PCI form factor are not described in the Managing PCI adapters information. See  to find part numbers and location codes for these types of cards. See the following sections for SAS RAID enablement procedures:   Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Related tasks: Related reference:         
 System parts Use this information to locate and identify common hardware parts. This section contains only the part numbers that are likely to be needed during hardware servicing, and is not a complete part number listing. Indexed assembly diagrams help you map the part to its position on the unit. Use  to help you identify location codes. Indexed drawings show system part numbers for each part. Indexed drawings show system part numbers for each part. Indexed drawings show system part numbers of each part. Indexed drawings show system part numbers of each part. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Indexed drawings show system part numbers of each part. Indexed drawings show system part numbers of each part. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Indexed drawings show system part numbers. Parent topic:          
  or  system parts Indexed drawings show system part numbers for each part. Rack final assemblyIndex number CCIN Part number Units per assembly Description  1   46K5096 1 EIA bracket (left) 1   46K5097 1 EIA bracket (right)  2   09P3744 2 Attaching screw for EIA bracket  3   59Y4919 2 Slide rail assembly 4   49Y5312 2 Attaching screw for slide rail assembly 5   74Y7445  1 Top access cover assembly 6    59Y4822 1 Cable management arm assembly 7   46K4640 1 Front bezel ()     74Y5140 1 Front bezel ()     74Y5142 1 Front bezel (OEM) Stand-alone final assemblyIndex number CCIN Part number Units per assembly Description 1   46K4642 1 Side cover (left) 74Y5228 1 Left side cover (OEM) 2     1 Service access cover 3   74Y4942 1 Top handle cap 4   74Y4941 1 Top handle assembly 5   46K4641 1 Side cover (right) 6     1 Attaching screw for side cover (right) System assembly detailIndex number CCIN Part number Units per assembly Description 8 2BCD 74Y5481 1 Control panel assembly 9   46K4646 1 Control panel cable (rack) 9   46K4645 1 Control panel cable (stand-alone) 10   74Y6301 1 Fan cage assembly 11   74Y5220 1 120 mm fan assembly 12     1 Tape drive. See . 13   46K7514 1-4 Memory riser 14 2BCF 74Y6020 1 Cache battery card 15 51CB 74Y5451 2 Processor VRM 16 2BE1 46K7723 1 RAID enablement card 17 2BDA 46K7529 2 GX book assembly 18 266D 46K8121 1  Quad 1 Gb copper card 18 266E 74Y2000 1  Dual 10 Gb fiber card 18 266F 74Y2003 1  Dual 10 Gb copper card 18 5288 74Y2094 1 2 2-port 10 GbE copper card 18 5287 74Y2095 1 2 2-port 10 GbE fiber card 19   46K5029 1 External SAS cable assembly 20   46K5415 1 Air divider 20   46K5417 1 Air divider on  riser 21 6B1C 74Y8565 1 40 mm Fan assembly on  riser 22 2BDD 74Y3019 1  expansion assembly 22 2BE6 74Y2288 1  expansion assembly (Gen2) 23 2BD9 44V8353 1 RAID and cache storage controller  23 2BE0 44V8368 1 RAID storage controller (split disk drive function) 24   46K7496 1 Disk unit cage assembly 24 2BD6 46K7552 1 Disk drive backplane (supports eight disk drives, one SATA DVD drive, and one SAS or USB tape drive) 24 2BD5 46K7496 1 Disk drive backplane (supports six disk drives, one SATA DVD drive, and one SAS or USB tape drive) 25     1 - 6 or 1 - 8 See . 26     1 DVD drive. See . System assembly detail, continuedIndex number CCIN Part number Units per assembly Description 27 537B 74Y6151 1 8 core 3.0 GHz processor module () 27 537C 74Y6150 1 6 core 3.0 GHz processor module () 27 537D 74Y6149 1 4 core 3.0 GHz processor module () 27 539E 74Y6155 1-2 4 core 3.72 GHz processor module () 27 535E 74Y6152 1-2 4 core 3.3 GHz processor module () 27 539D 74Y6153 1-2 6 core 3.72 GHz processor module () 27 539F 74Y6154 1-2 8 core 3.55 GHz processor module () 28   44V8326 1 Heat sink 29     1 Memory card cage assembly 30     1 Attaching screw for memory card cage assembly 31     1 Processor VRM bracket 32     1 Attaching screw for processor VRM bracket 33     1 Fan lattice 34     1 Attaching screw for fan bracket 35     1 Processor VRM bracket 36     1 Attaching screw for processor VRM bracket 37 52C3 74Y1706 1 System VPD card 38   74Y5985 2 Power supply assembly 39   74Y6714 1 Interlock switch with cable 40 2BFB 46K7505 1 System backplane () 40 2BFC 46K7877 1 System backplane () 41     1 Attaching screw for system backplane Memory card assemblyIndex number CCIN Part number Units per assembly Description 1 51CC 74Y5453 1 80A memory VRM (C6) 2 51CD 74Y5455 1 20A memory VRM (C5) 3   77P8784 1-32 4 GB, 1066 MHz DDR3 DIMM 3   77P8919 1-32 8 GB, 1066 MHz DDR3 DIMM 4   46K7514 1-4 Memory riser Feature code Description Part number 1828 1.5-meter  cable 45D2235 1841 3-meter  cable 45D2236 3124 3.7-meter cable 88G4771 3125 8-meter cable 88G4772 3652 1-meter  EE cable 44V4147  3653 3-meter  EE cable 44V4148 3654 6-meter  EE cable 44V4149 3661 3-meter  X cable 44V4154 3662 6-meter  X cable 44V4155 3663 15-meter  X cable 44V4156 3679 1-meter  AI cable 44V4041 3684 3-meter  AE cable 44V4163 3685 6-meter  AE cable 44V4164 3686 1.5-meter  YI cable 44V4161 3687 3-meter  Y0 cable 44V4162 3691 1.5-meter  Y0 cable 44V4157 3692 3-meter  Y0 cable 44V4158 3693 6-meter  Y0 cable 44V4159 3694 15-meter  Y0 cable 44V4160 3656 10.5 inch  cable 46K5450 6001 2-meter SPCN cable 22R5217 6006 3-meter SPCN cable 22R5239 6007 15-meter SPCN cable 22R5221 6008 6-meter SPCN cable 22R5219 6029 30-meter SPCN cable 22R5222 3656  cable for tape drive 46K5450   USB internal cable for tape drive 46K7435   Internal power cable for tape drive 46K7434 CCIN Description Part number   External cables and cords See .   Removable media See .   PCI adapters See . 58B2 1.8-inch 177 GB small form factor solid-state drive on PCIe  RAID and SSD adapter 43W7749   Cache battery pack for cache battery card and RAID and cache storage controller 74Y6773   Cable configuration See .   Time-of-day battery 44V4359   Front cover for the tower 74Y4861 Disk drive and solid-state drive system parts information. Keyboard parts information. Parent topic:          
 Managing tape drives Learn about using and managing removable media devices. Find specifications and installation notes for specific drives. Learn general information about tape drives. Find what you need to know before you install a SCSI tape drive. Parent topic:          
 Tape drives Learn general information about tape drives. Select the appropriate information from this list: Tape drive overviewYour tape drive must be installed in the cleanest possible environment. Additionally, tape drives require high quality, data grade tapes and cleaning on a regular basis. Media must also be stored and handled properly. Improper use, storage or handling of tape drives or media may void your warranty or service agreement.  If a tape drive stops functioning due to a component failure during the tape drive warranty or maintenance time, the tape drive supplier will replace the tape drive unit. The tape drive supplier will replace any defective tape drive under the terms and conditions of the warranty or service agreement.  The tape drive is a streaming device used primarily for: Saving and restoring system data files Archiving important records Distributing operating system software upgrades  The following information describes hardware features and functions. While the hardware supports them, the availability of these features and functions depends upon support from the operating system. For information about support for features and functions, see the documentation for your operating system. Tape drive environment and useTape drives require specific maintenance and environmental conditions to operate well over time. Using high-quality, data-grade media, handling and storing this media correctly, operating the tape drive in a clean environment, and keeping the tape drive correctly cleaned can help you to avoid problems with your tape drive. If a tape drive stops functioning due to a component failure during the tape drive warranty or maintenance time, the service provider will replace the tape drive unit. The service provider will replace any defective tape drive under the terms and conditions of its warranty or service agreement. It is the service provider's objective to work with you to identify the cause of any tape-drive problem and provide a solution. Tape handling and storageMost tape is supplied in a sealed cartridge so that the tape will remain clean. Opening the cartridge allows dirt and airborne particles to enter and then become a source of contamination. The cartridge should only be opened by the tape drive and not an operator. The tape also is held under proper tension inside the cartridge. If the cartridge is dropped, this tension will be relaxed.  Inserting a dropped cartridge into a tape drive can cause incorrect loading and result in a jam. This action will ruin the tape and can cause physical damage if the cartridge is not removed correctly. When the tapes are stored, they must be replaced in their protective containers and stored on their end. The storage area must be clean, dry, at normal room temperature, and away from any magnetic fields. Improper use, storage, or handling of tape drives or media might void your warranty or service agreement. Environmental issuesTape drives are designed to operate in a clean environment.  Problems can be caused by dirt, dust, fibers, and airborne particles. Airborne particles are the most difficult to address. When a tape is installed into the tape drive, the clearance between the heads and the tape is measured in microns. Particles can damage the tape or the head if they come in contact with either. Customers are responsible to provide a clean operating environment for the tape drive and system. Tape drive cleaningNo matter how clean the environment, debris can build up on the heads of any tape drive. Every time tape motion occurs, some of the media surface comes off on the heads. Over time, this surface builds up and causes errors in reading and writing. Customers are responsible to clean the tape drive in accordance with the cleaning information that was provided with the tape drive. Cleaning cartridges can be used a limited number of times. After a cleaning cartridge has been used to its maximum number of times, the cartridge is considered expired. When cartridges expire, they must be replaced. Never reuse an expired cleaning cartridge. Doing so allows previously removed dirt to be reintroduced to the tape drive. Place a mark on the cleaning cartridge after each use, to best determine when your cleaning cartridge has expired. SCSI hardware issues If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, this section does not apply to your system. For information about the auto-docking feature, see your system documentation. SCSI bus cables and terminators can affect tape drive performance. Use cables and terminators that are designed specifically to keep the SCSI bus as free of noise as possible. Generic cables or terminators can adversely affect the SCSI bus performance.  If your service provider's analysis indicates a problem with inferior cables, it might be necessary for the customer to replace them. Microcode updatesTo make certain that the tape drives work their best, your system supplier might release changed microcode for the tape drives. When a microcode change is developed, your system supplier makes the change available to you through its service organization or by electronic delivery. You might be responsible for installing new microcode as it becomes available. However, microcode can be installed by your service provider or your system administrator. For more information, contact your authorized service provider. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Managing tape drives Learn about using and managing removable media devices. Find specifications and installation notes for specific drives. Learn general information about tape drives. Find what you need to know before you install a SCSI tape drive. Parent topic:          
 Tape drive media  Your system supplier might support only the media that it sells. If the supplier's analysis indicates that the problem is caused by using inferior media, it is the customer's responsibility to replace the inferior media. Select the appropriate information from this list:   Types of cartridgesTape devices use the following media cartridges.  Data cartridge Use the data cartridge to save or restore programs or data. Test cartridge Use the specially labeled test cartridge to run the AIX® system diagnostics (for information about running diagnostics, refer to your AIX documentation). Do not use the test cartridge to save or restore customer programs or data. Cleaning cartridge Use the specially labeled cleaning cartridge to clean the device.  Use of other than the  specified cleaning cartridge can damage your device and might void your warranty.  To order additional cartridges, refer to . Recommendations for data cartridge usage The following list describes recommended guidelines that will help to protect your data and prolong the life of your tape cartridges and the device:  Use only the tape cartridge specified for your type of tape device. Remove the tape cartridge from the drive when the drive is not in use. Back up and then discard any tape cartridge that repeatedly produces error messages (the error information is in the System Error Log). On the data cartridge, do not open the door that covers the tape. The door protects the tape from dirt, dust, and damage. Do not touch the tape. Any substance transferred to the tape by touching could cause loss of data. To avoid problems with loading and unloading, use only one label on a cartridge. Multiple or poorly placed labels can clog the drive load mechanism. Do not use poor-quality tape cartridges. They can cause excessive read or write errors, and they might damage the tape drive. Discard any tape cartridges that are dropped, because the impact might damage the tape's internal mechanism. Make sure the environment is kept clean and constant. Do not operate in a dusty environment and always maintain a constant environment. A consistent storage and operating environment reduces media exposure to climatic stress.  Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty. Printers and copiers can produce paper dust and toner dust. Locate the tape unit away from these items. High traffic areas near hallways and doors can also produce excess dust and dirt. Record all important information on the tape label. Information, such as the model and number of the system or tape drive, the date, the density, any error statistics, and include a log number. Also note the operating environment and compression mode.  Prolonging head lifeNew technology found in the tape device is read and write compatible with newer tape cartridges. Due to media characteristics, extended use of older tape cartridges might increase head wear on the drive. An indication of this head wear is an increase in soft (recoverable) errors. Using newer tape cartridges may have enhanced characteristics that can reduce drive head wear and maximize the overall advantages of the tape device. Storage and shipping environmentsBefore using a tape cartridge, let it acclimatize to the operating environment by placing the cartridge in the operating environment for as long as it has been away from the environment or for 24 hours, whichever is less. Acclimatization is necessary for any data cartridge exposed to an environmental change in humidity or to temperature changes of 11°C (20°F) or more. To determine the appropriate operating environment, see . Retrieval of archived data can be performed on a tape unit that is clean and fully operational. Try to make the recovery environment the same as the operating environment. Allow tapes at least 24 hours to acclimatize to the environment of the tape unit.  The recommended environment for storage and shipment of cartridges is shown in . Environmental Factor Storage Shipping Temperature 5°C - 32°C (41°F - 90°F) -40 - 52°C  (-40 - 125°F) Relative Humidity  (noncondensing) 20% - 60% 5% - 80% Maximum Wet Bulb 26°C (79°F) 26°C (79°F) Tape cartridge storageTape drives record data using densities similar to hard disk drives. Because most computer systems are not located in a dust-free, climate-controlled environment, you must exercise special care when dealing with tape cartridges and tape drives. They must be treated as a valuable asset used to protect your business data. Use the following guidelines for storing your tape cartridges:  Keep temperature and humidity constant at the levels listed in . Always store tape cartridges in their protective cases. The storage case helps prevent damage from dust and physical misuse.  When the tape cartridges are not in use or being stored, keep them in their storage cases and stand on edge in a designated storage location. Do not stack cartridges on the flat side or stack other items on top of the tape cartridges. Handle your tape cartridges with care to reduce archival problems. Keep protective cases for tape cartridges closed except when inserting or removing a cartridge. Contamination can build up and be transferred to the tape cartridge if the protective case is left open. Exercise stored tapes at least once every 12 months. Run the tape from Beginning of Data (BOD) to End of Data (EOD) and back to BOD at normal operating speeds. Exercise tapes stored in a warmer environment more frequently. Sunlight can damage the tape and the cartridge shell. Store tape cartridges out of the direct sunlight.   Operation outside of the recommended environment can result in possible loss of data or failure of the drive. Operating in harsh environmentsThe device is suited to streaming operations, as opposed to multiple stop-and-start, random-search tape operations.  When the tape is used for frequent stop-and-start operations, it is beneficial to still have as much streaming movement as possible.  This can be accomplished by ensuring that any save or restore operation is the only active operation being performed. Do not use any tape for archival purposes if it has been used outside of the ranges specified in  for an extended period of time.  The magnetic and physical strength of the tape will have deteriorated as a result of its exposure to the environment.  Do not store important data on such a tape; transfer the data to a newer tape for reliable archiving. Ordering tape and data cartridgesAll tape cartridges are not alike. The tape composition and length, and the construction of the cartridge itself can all affect the quality and capacity of the recording and the performance of your tape drive. A poor quality tape cartridge might appear to work adequately in your system, yet it can leave contamination in the tape path or impede the speed of the recording. The length and composition of the tape, and the size, shape, and construction of the cartridge shell must all be considered when selecting the tape cartridge to be used with your system.  using only data and cleaning cartridges supplied by . Use only data-grade tape media for backup and data processing.  To order cartridges in the United States and Canada, call 1-888-IBM-MEDIA, or got to. Tape drive Part number Type of cartridge Capacity DDS3 59H3466 Test Cartridge  11.5m  21F8763 Cleaning Cartridge 50 cleanings 59H3465 Data Cartridge 12 GB DDS4 59H4457 Test Cartridge  11.5m  21F8763 Cleaning Cartridge 50 cleanings 59H4458 Data Cartridge 20 GB DAT72 59H4457 Test Cartridge  11.5m 21F8763 Cleaning Cartridge 50 cleanings 18P7912 Data Cartridge 36 GB DAT160 23R5636 Test Cartridge  155m  23R5638 Cleaning Cartridge 25 cleanings (minimum) 23R5635 Data Cartridge 80 GB DAT320 46C1938 Test Cartridge  153m  46C1937 Cleaning Cartridge 27 cleanings (minimum) 50 cleanings (average) 70 cleaning (maximum) 46C1936 Data Cartridge 160 GB Part number Type of cartridge Length 35L1044 20 GB AME with SmartClean Data Cartridge 75 m (246 ft) 09L5323 40 GB AME with SmartClean Data Cartridge 150 m (492 ft) 18P6484 60 GB AME with SmartClean Data Cartridge 225 m (738 ft) 35L1409 Cleaning Cartridge   Part number Type of cartridge Length 24R2137 80/160 GB  X23 VXA Data Cartridge 230 m (754 ft) 24R2136 40/80 GB X10* VXA Data Cartridge 124 m (406 ft) 24R2134 20/40 GB X6* VXA Data Cartridge 62 m (203 ft) 24R2135 VXA X6* Test Cartridge 62 m (203 ft) 24R2138 VXA 20 X Cleaning Cartridge    *X type media requires a minimum microcode level of 2105. Part number Type of cartridge Length 19P4876 80/160 GB  V23 VXA Data Cartridge 230 m (754 ft) 24R2136 40/80 GB V10 VXA Data Cartridge 124 m (406 ft) 19P4878 20/40 GB V6 VXA Data Cartridge 62 m (203 ft) 19P4879 VXA V6 Test Cartridge  62 m (203 ft) 19P4880 VXA 20 V Cleaning Cartridge    V cartridges are the original VXA cartridge. Part number   Type of cartridge  Length 08L9120 100/200GB LTO Ultrium 1 Data Cartridge 610 m (2000 ft )  08L9870  200/400GB LTO Ultrium 2 Data Cartridge 610 m (2000 ft )  24R1922 LTO-3 Data Cartridge (400GB/800GB)   96P1203 LTO-3 Worm Data Cartridge   95P4436 LTO-4 Data Cartridge (800GB/1.6TB)    95P4450 LTO-4 Worm Data Cartridge    45E1129 LTO-4 Test Cartridge   24R0395  LTO Gen-2 Test Cartridge 610 m (2000 ft )  35L2086  Universal Cleaning Cartridge    46X1290 LTO-5 Data Cartridge( 1.5 TB / 3.0 TB) Write/Read   46C2009  LTO-5 Test Cartridge( 1.5 TB / 3.0 TB) Write/Read   46X1292  LTO-5 Worm Data Cartridge Write 1x/Read many   Feature code IBM part number Type of cartridge 1106 46C5375 160 GB RDX Removable Hard Disk Cartridge EU08 46C5377 320 GB RDX Removable Hard Disk Cartridge 1107 46C5379 500 GB RDX Removable Hard Disk Cartridge EU01 46C2335 1 TB RDX Removable Hard Disk Cartridge EU15 46C2831 1.5 TB RDX Removable Hard Disk Cartridge Parent topic:          
 Preparing the tape drive for installation Find what you need to know before you install a SCSI tape drive. Handling recommendations Be sure to read these instructions before you remove the device from its anti-static bag or any time you handle it. For optimum performance, always follow these recommendations:  Handle the drive carefully and by its external metal chassis. Keep your hands away from the printed circuit boards, components, and printed circuit (flex) cables. If possible, work on a cushioned surface, and do not drop the device onto the work surface. If you move the device to an environment that is colder or warmer than its previous environment, keep the drive in its package and allow the package to reach the current room temperature. This action prevents potential data loss or damage to the device. Allow one hour of acclimatization for each 10 degrees C (18 degrees F) difference between the ship or storage temperature and the room temperature.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, the remainder of this information does not apply to your system. For information about the auto-docking feature, see your system documentation. Planning your serial-attached SCSI (SAS) device layoutSAS devices do not require you to set a SCSI address before connecting to a SAS bus.   Configuring the tape driveTo configure the drive after installation, boot your system unit. Device drivers are provided in the operating systems that support the drive. Your operating system recognizes the drive and automatically updates your system unit configuration. Updating microcode levelsMedia devices contain microcode that you can update. For instructions about how to obtain and install the latest microcode levels for your device, go to . Parent topic:          
 800/1600 GB Ultrium 4 SAS tape drive (FC 5746) Feature  Description Description The Ultrium 4 serial attached SCSI (SAS) tape drive is a half-high tape drive designed for Open Systems backup and restore applications. The tape drive is an LTO Ultrium 4 standard interchange device. The drive will read tapes written by other Ultrium 4 drives, and will write to tapes readable by other Ultrium 4 drives. For an illustration of the drive, see .Characteristics: FRU part number is 45E1127. For media part numbers, see . Custom card identification number (CCIN) number is 63A0 Data transfer rate: 120 MB per second native mode, 240 MB per second at 2:1 compression Bootable device, depending on the host system configuration Operation: Streaming  Form Factor: 5.25-inch half high  Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41 mm) half-high media bay and one integrated, internal SAS controller Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation: A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation Contact the place of purchase if an item is missing or damaged.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, see your system documentation for information about the auto-docking feature. Media The drive will read and write on Ultrium 4 and Ultrium 3 cartridges, and read Ultrium 2 cartridges.  The drive will not write on Ultrium 2 cartridges, and the drive will not read or write on Ultrium 1 cartridges. Each Ultrium 4 tape cartridge can store up to 800 GB of uncompressed data, or up to 1600 GB of compressed data.  The actual capacity varies depending on the application, the type of data, and the tape cartridge. When data compression is activated, 800 GB is typical and 1600 GB is possible. The default setting of data compression is controlled by the host system. The user and the application software can control the activation or deactivation of the data compression setting. The drive can optimally achieve a 2:1 compression ratio. Related information Your package contains the following items: The tape drive Media kit containing:  One cleaning cartridge One test tape Specific hardware for attaching the drive to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your drive. You might need to eject a tape, reset the drive, or place the drive in maintenance mode. Use the information in this topic to perform these tasks.   Learn about using maintenance mode functions on the 5746 tape drive. Use the information in this section to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 5746) Available tape cartridgesPart number   Type of cartridge  24R1922  LTO-3 Data Cartridge (400GB/800GB) 96P1203 LTO-3 Worm Data Cartridge 35L2086 LTO-4 Cleaning Cartridge  45E1129 LTO-4 Test Cartridge 95P4436 LTO-4 Data Cartridge (800 GB / 1.6 TB)  95P4450 LTO-4 Worm Data Cartridge   Do not attempt to bulk erase an LTO data cartridge for reuse. Bulk eraser devices cannot properly erase an LTO data cartridge and cause permanent damage to the cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Eject button functions on the tape drive (FC 5746) You might need to eject a tape, reset the drive, or place the drive in maintenance mode. Use the information in this topic to perform these tasks. The drive has an eject button that enables you to perform the functions shown in the following table. The eject button is illustrated in . Function How to start the function Reset the drive Press and hold the eject button on the drive for 20 seconds.  The drive saves a dump of the current drive state, and then reboots to allow communication.  Do not cycle power because this will erase the contents of the dump. Rewind the tape into the cartridge and eject the cartridge from the tape drive Press the eject button once.  The status light flashes green while the tape drive is rewinding and unloading.  Place the tape drive in maintenance mode Ensure that the tape drive is unloaded.  Then, press the eject button three times within one second.  You are in maintenance mode when the light becomes solid amber and 0 appears in the single-character display.  Scroll through the maintenance functions While in maintenance mode, push the eject button once per second to increment the display characters by one.  When you reach the character of the diagnostic or maintenance function that you want, press and hold the eject button for 3 seconds. For a list of Maintenance functions, see . Exit maintenance mode Press the eject button once per second until 0 displays.  Then press and hold the eject button for 3 seconds.  Maintenance mode is exited when the status light becomes solid green and the single-character display becomes blank.  Force a drive dump (part of the maintenance mode)  If the tape drive detects a permanent error and displays an error code, it automatically forces a drive dump.  If you force a drive dump, the existing dump will be overwritten and data will be lost.  After you force a drive dump, do not turn off the power to the tape drive or you might lose the dump data.  If the tape drive is in maintenance mode (status light is solid amber), select function code 4. For a list of Maintenance functions, see . If the tape drive is in operating mode (status light is solid or flashing green), press and hold the eject button for 10 seconds. If captured dump data exists, the tape drive places the data into a dump area Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 5746) The following illustration shows a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description Eject button Ready LED Fault LED Single-character display (SCD) SCD light The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table. Operation Ready  Fault Single character display Response Power-On Self-Test in progress  Off Off or on Segments flashing1 Wait 30 - 60 seconds. After Power-On Self-Test and drive reset 2 3.0 seconds on2 3.0 seconds on2 3.0 seconds on2 Wait 30 - 60 seconds. No cartridge is loaded Off Off or on3 Off or C3 Wait 30 - 60 seconds. Cartridge is loading or unloading Flashing1 Off or on3 Off or C3 Wait 30 - 60 seconds. Cartridge loaded, no activity  On Off or on3 Off or C3 Wait 30 - 60 seconds. Data cartridge loaded, activity  Flashing1 Off or on3 Off or C3 Wait 30 - 60 seconds. Cleaning is required  (clean bit is set)  On or off On3 C3 Clean drive as soon as possible. Cleaning in progress  Flashing Off C3 Wait for cleaning to complete. Cleaning cartridge loaded, clean failed  Off On 6 or 74 Replace cleaning cartridge, which might be expired. Maximum operating temperature exceeded 5 Off On 1 Reduce drive temperature. Input voltage failure  Off On 2 Check input power connections. Drive firmware failure 6  Off Flashing1 3 Update to latest level firmware. Drive firmware or hardware failure 6  Off Flashing1 4 Clean drive, replace cartridge, or both, if needed. Try the operation again.  Unrecoverable drive failure Off Flashing1 5 Drive or media failure 7  Off On 6 Media error  Off On 74 Replace cartridge.  Possible expired cleaning cartridge. SAS interface failure Off Flashing1 8 Check SAS cable and connector. Recoverable drive error 8 Off On A Clean drive and try the operation again. Incorrect media  Off On J Insert correct media type. Firmware update is in progress  Both LEDs flashing together Both LEDs flashing together Off Wait for update to complete. Incorrect firmware update tape used  Off On F4 Replace firmware update tape. Firmware update failed 9 Off Flashing1 H Try the firmware update operation again. Write operation was attempted and media is write-protected Off On P4 Use media that is not write protected. Drive is in service mode Flashing rapidly1 On On10   Self-test is in progress Flashing1 On The number 1 is flashing Wait for test to complete 1 When used in this table, flashing refers to a 1 Hz flash rate (1 flash per second), and flashing rapidly refers to a 4 Hz flash rate (4 flashes per second).  2 Immediately following a power-on self-test sequence or drive reset, both LEDs, all segments of the single-character display, and the SCD dot will be on solid for approximately 3 seconds.    3 When a drive needs cleaning, the Fault LED will be on solid and a C will show on the single character display. In most cases, the drive will continue to function, but it should be cleaned as soon as possible.  Do not ignore the indicator by cycling the power to turn off the LED.  4 Error code on single-character display is cleared when cartridge is removed from drive.  5 The Fault LED will be on solid to indicate an over-temperature condition.  If a tape is present, it will be ejected.  This LED will remain on until the drive temperature drops below a lower secondary-temperature limit and one of the following two conditions is also met:A data or cleaning cartridge is inserted.   The drive is powered off and on.    6 A drive dump will be stored before the drive is powered off. The SCD light serves as a dump indicator.  When this light is lit, a dump file is stored in the drive and can be retrieved. 7 Failure cannot be isolated to either a faulty drive or faulty media. 8 Error condition will be cleared when the drive is powered off. The drive is not disabled. 9 The firmware update failed and the drive is not functional. The drive boot code is in control and you should try the firmware download again. 10 When the drive is in maintenance mode, the Fault LED will be on solid and the single character display will indicate the current maintenance mode state. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch (FC 5746)     The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape. Before loading cartridges into magazines, set the write-protect switch of each cartridge to enable or disable data recording. When the switch is set to the left, data can be written to the tape. When the switch is set to the right, data cannot be written to the tape. Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC 5746) Clean the device whenever the Fault status light comes on and a C is displayed in the single-character display (SCD), or when a system I/O error occurs that is related to the device. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than the recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty. The tape drive will set the cleaning indicator when one of the following conditions occurs: The tape drive exceeds internal preset error thresholds in the drive.  The tape drive exceeds the maximum recommended time between cleaning.  This is an internal drive calculation where the drive maintains information on the amount of data written and read and when this value reaches a total of approximately 20 full tape writes or reads the drive will request cleaning. The cleaning indicator will be turned on when the tape is ejected.   There is a write or read failure of the tape drive to the data cartridge.   When a cleaning cartridge that has been used the maximum number of times is inserted in the drive, the drive will turn on the fault indicator.   The SCD displays 6 or 7 to indicate that the cleaning process is not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable.    To clean the tape drive, complete the following steps:   After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive does the following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by moving the cleaning tape forward for approximately 30 seconds. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete. Indicates a successful cleaning operation by turning off the C in the SCD, if the C in the SCD was on prior to the cleaning process.   If the cleaning operation is completed but the C in the SCD remains on, the cleaning cartridge might not be usable. Repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the C in the SCD still remains on, contact your authorized service provider. To determine how many times a cleaning cartridge can be used, check the information printed on the cartridge. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge the fault indicator will be turned on and the SCD displays 6 or 7 to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable.  If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, and then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Maintenance mode (FC 5746) Learn about using maintenance mode functions on the 5746 tape drive. Performing operations using the front panel Perform maintenance operations by pushing the eject button while observing the status LED and the single-character display.  Entering maintenance mode To enter maintenance mode (if the drive is not already in maintenance mode and no cartridge is loaded), press and hold the eject button for 6 seconds.  While the drive is in maintenance mode, the status LED is shows solid amber and the operator can perform maintenance or diagnostic functions.  In maintenance mode, the tape drive is offline to SCSI commands.  If a tape is loaded, the eject button is interpreted as an eject request.  The drive cannot be put into maintenance mode while a tape is loaded. Scrolling through maintenance optionsWith the drive in maintenance mode, press the eject push button at a rate of once per second. The single-character display code increments by one each time you press the eject push button.    Do not press the eject push button more frequently than once per second or the selected maintenance function will occur instead of the desired scrolling operation.  After the last maintenance function is reached, the display code wraps to 0. Unassigned digits (B, D, and G) are not displayed when the options are incremented. 	The following table lists the maintenance functions. Maintenance functions Display code Normal mode  None Exit maintenance mode  0 Drive diagnostics  1 Update drive microcode from the firmware microcode release (FMR) tape  2 Create FMR tape  3 Force a drive dump (same as pressing the eject button for 10 or more seconds, except it does not cause a reset operation) 4 Copy drive dump to tape at the beginning of tape 5 Copy drive dump to tape  5-1 Copy drive dump to flash memory  5-2 Clear flash dump  5-3 SCSI wrap test 6 SAS wrap test for port 1  6-1 SAS wrap test for port 2 6-2 SAS wrap test for both ports 6-3 RS-422 wrap test  7 Unmake FMR tape  8 Display error code log  9 Clear error code log  A Insert cartridge into tape drive  C Test cartridge and media  E Write performance test F Test head  H Fast write test  J Load/unload test L Enable post-error reporting P Disable post-error reporting U Running a maintenance functionTo run the maintenance function indicated by the character on the single-character display, press and hold the eject button for 2 seconds.  The single digit flashes the selected maintenance function code during the running of the operation.  If the drive runs the function successfully, the single-character display indicates 0.  If the function fails, the status LED indicates continuous yellow and the single-character display indicates the reason for the error by displaying an error code. For a list of error codes, see . Exiting maintenance modeTo exit maintenance mode, press the eject button twice within one second: While the single-character display indicates 0. When the selected maintenance function is completed either successfully or unsuccessfully. When the eject button is pressed during any currently running maintenance function.  Running a dump operation when not in maintenance mode To perform a drive dump operation, press and hold the eject button for 10 or more seconds.  The microcode goes to its initialized state after a dump operation.  Data from a dump operation is for use by trained personnel for problem determination. Parent topic:          
 Resetting the tape drive Use this information to reset your tape drive, without affecting server operation. Allow up to 2 minutes for the entire tape drive process to complete.  Resetting a tape drive before the current backup operation has completed can cause loss of customer data. To reset the tape drive, complete the following steps:  The LEDs on the drive flash while the reset function is in process.   The drive is then ready to use. Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 80/160 GB DAT160 SAS tape drive (FC 1124) The 80/160 GB DAT160 SAS tape drive (FC 1124) information applies only to an  system. For an  system, the FC 1124 requires FC 5263, DASD/Media backplane - 3 SFF DASD/SATA DVD/HHTape. Feature Description Description The  is a 3.5-inch, half-high, SAS drive, which provides a high capacity for save/restore and achieve functions.. This tape drive uses  DAT160, 4 mm data cartridges and is compression capable, providing a capacity of up to 160 GB with 2:1 compression ratio.    Characteristics:  FRU part number: 46C2215 or 46C2691 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 63A0 Media part numbers: see  Capacity: 80 GB native mode, 160 GB (typical) compression mode Form factor: 3.5-inch half high Media: DAT160, DAT72, and DDS4 media Technology: helical scan, rotating head Operation: streaming Data transfer rate: 6 MBps native mode, 12 MBps (typical) compression Interface: integrated, internal SAS Compatibility: DDS4 (read/write), DAT72 (read/write), and DAT160 (read/write) Attributes provided: 4 mm tape capability, test cartridge, cleaning cartridge, and a data cartridge Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41 mm) half-high media bay and one integrated, internal SAS Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation: A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation Contact the place of purchase if an item is missing or damaged.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, see your system documentation for information about the auto-docking feature. Media This tape drive uses 4 mm data cartridges for saving and restoring system data.  It is designed to use only DDS (Digital Data Storage) data cartridges. The cartridges are identified by one of the following DDS symbols: The tape drive reads and writes data to tape cartridges that are in the DDS4, DAT72, or DAT160 format. Related information Your package contains the following items:   The tape drive Media kit containing:  One cleaning cartridge One test tape Specific hardware for attaching the drive to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your drive. Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 1124) Available tape cartridges part number Type of cartridge 23R5635 (cartridge feature code 5689) DAT160 80 GB Data Cartridge  23R5636 4 mm Test Cartridge 23R5638 4 mm Cleaning Cartridge Most bulk eraser devices do not have the capability to erase the 4 mm data cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC 1124) Clean the device whenever the Fault status light comes on or a system I/O error related to the device occurs. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty. The cleaning cartridge for this drive is P/N 23R5638. The cartridge is physically larger than previous cleaning cartridges and it is the only cleaning cartridge that can be used in this drive.  The older, narrower cleaning cartridges do not work in the 1124 tape drive and are ejected from the drive without cleaning the drive. The tape drive will turn on the cleaning indicator for the following reasons:The tape drive exceeds internal preset error thresholds in the drive.  A cleaning cartridge that has been used the maximum number of times is inserted in the drive. The cleaning indicator is turned on to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. The tape drive exceeds the maximum recommended time between cleaning. The maximum recommended time between preventive-maintenance cleaning is 50 tape motion hours. Tape motion hours are defined as the time that the tape drive is moving tape. If the tape drive reaches 50 tape motion hours since the tape drives was last cleaned, the drive will turn on the cleaning required LED to  indicate the drive needs cleaning.  The tape drive will continue to operate but the tape drive should be cleaned at the next opportunity to insert a cleaning cartridge.  Operating the tape drive in a low-humidity environment causes the drive to request cleaning more often than in normal humidity environment.  In extreme low-humidity conditions of less than 15% relative humidity, the tape drive might request cleaning every 10 tape motion hours or even more frequently. For this reason, it is best not to use the tape drive in extremely low-humidity environments.  To clean the tape drive, complete the following steps:   After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive does the following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by moving the cleaning tape forward for approximately 30 seconds. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete. Indicates a successful cleaning operation by turning off the Cleaning status light (if the Cleaning light was on prior to the cleaning process. Otherwise, the Cleaning light remains solid to indicate that the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. Obtain a new cleaning cartridge and repeat the process.) If the cleaning operation completes but the Cleaning light remains on, repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the light still remain on, contact your authorized service representative. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge, the drive automatically detects the error and ejects the cartridge. If the Cleaning status light was on prior to the cleaning process, it stays on; if the Cleaning light was off, the depleted cartridge causes the light to come on. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Loading and unloading tape cartridges  To avoid problems with loading and unloading tape cartridges use only one label on a cartridge. If the tape cartridge has too many labels or poorly placed labels, the drive-load mechanism might clog. Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Loading a tape cartridge To load a tape cartridge, complete the following steps:   Make sure that the write-protect switch is correctly set. To indicate that the load operation was successful, the ready status light comes on. Unloading a tape cartridge To unload a tape cartridge, complete the following steps:  The device rewinds, unloads, and ejects the tape cartridge. The process might take from 15 seconds to several minutes, depending on the position of the tape and the amount of data written. During this task, the status lights do the following sequence:The ready status light turns off. The activity status light flashes during the unload operation. The activity status light turns off when the cartridge is ejected from the tape drive.  An emergency eject and reset feature can be used to release the tape cartridge and to reset the drive. Use the emergency eject feature if the cartridge does not move correctly or if the unload process fails.  The emergency eject and reset feature procedure might result in loss of data. To perform an emergency eject operation of the tape cartridge or a reset operation of the drive, press and hold the Unload button for at least 10 seconds. If a cartridge is in the drive, the cartridge automatically ejects without rewinding the tape.         
 80/160 GB DAT160 USB tape drive (FC EU16) Feature Description Description The  is a 5.25-inch, half-high, USB drive, which provides a high capacity for save/restore and achieve functions. To see an illustration of this drive, see . This tape drive uses  DAT160, 4 mm data cartridges and is compression capable, providing a capacity of up to 160 GB with 2:1 compression ratio.    Characteristics:  FRU part number: 46C2458 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 63A0 Media part numbers: see  Capacity: 80 GB native mode, 160 GB (typical) compression mode Form factor: 5.25-inch half high Media: DAT160, DAT72, and DDS4 media Technology: helical scan, rotating head Operation: streaming Data transfer rate: 6 MBps native mode, 12 MBps (typical) compression Interface: integrated, internal USB Compatibility: DDS4 (read/write), DAT72 (read/write), and DAT160 (read/write) Attributes provided: 4 mm tape capability, test cartridge, cleaning cartridge, and a data cartridge Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41 mm) half-high media bay and one integrated, internal USB Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation:  A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation Contact the place of purchase if an item is missing or damaged.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, see your system documentation for information about the auto-docking feature. Media This tape drive uses 4 mm data cartridges for saving and restoring system data.  It is designed to use only DDS (Digital Data Storage) data cartridges. The cartridges are identified by one of the following DDS symbols: The tape drive reads and writes data to tape cartridges that are in the DDS4, DAT72, or DAT160 format. Related information Your package contains the following items:   The tape drive Media kit containing:  One cleaning cartridge One test tape Specific hardware for attaching the drive to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your drive. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC EU16) Available tape cartridges part number Type of cartridge 23R5635 (cartridge feature code 5689) DAT160 80 GB Data Cartridge  23R5636 4 mm Test Cartridge 23R5638 4 mm Cleaning Cartridge (Only use the DAT160 cleaning cartridge on the DAT160 tape drive) Most bulk eraser devices do not have the capability to erase the 4 mm data cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC EU16) Clean the device whenever the Fault status light comes on or a system I/O error related to the device occurs. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty. The cleaning cartridge for this drive is P/N 23R5638. The cartridge is physically larger than previous cleaning cartridges and it is the only cleaning cartridge that can be used in this drive.  The older, narrower cleaning cartridges do not work in the 5619 tape drive and are ejected from the drive without cleaning the drive. The tape drive will turn on the cleaning indicator for the The tape drive exceeds internal preset error thresholds in the drive.  A cleaning cartridge that has been used the maximum number of times is inserted in the drive. The cleaning indicator is turned on to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. The tape drive exceeds the maximum recommended time between cleaning. The maximum recommended time between preventive-maintenance cleaning is 50 tape motion hours. Tape motion hours are defined as the time that the tape drive is moving tape. If the tape drive reaches 50 tape motion hours since the tape drives was last cleaned, the drive will turn on the cleaning required LED to  indicate the drive needs cleaning.  The tape drive will continue to operate but the tape drive should be cleaned at the next opportunity to insert a cleaning cartridge.  Operating the tape drive in a low-humidity environment causes the drive to request cleaning more often than in normal humidity environment.  In extreme low-humidity conditions of less than 15% relative humidity, the tape drive might request cleaning every 10 tape motion hours or even more frequently. For this reason, it is best not to use the tape drive in extremely low-humidity environments.  To clean the tape drive, complete the following steps:   After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive does the following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by moving the cleaning tape forward for approximately 30 seconds. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete. Indicates a successful cleaning operation by turning off the Cleaning status light (if the Cleaning light was on prior to the cleaning process. Otherwise, the Cleaning light remains solid to indicate that the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. Obtain a new cleaning cartridge and repeat the process.) If the cleaning operation completes but the Cleaning light remains on, repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the light still remain on, contact your authorized service representative. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge, the drive automatically detects the error and ejects the cartridge. If the Cleaning status light was on prior to the cleaning process, it stays on; if the Cleaning light was off, the depleted cartridge causes the light to come on. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch (FC EU16)   The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape. Index number Description When the switch is set to the right, data can be written to and read from the tape. When the switch is set to the left, data can only be read. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC EU16) The following illustration is a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description Cleaning LED (amber) Media fault LED (amber) Drive fault LED (amber) Ready/Activity LED (green) Unload/Reset button  The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table. Activity Cleaning (amber) Media fault (amber) Drive fault (amber) Ready/Activity (green) Power on LED test (2.0 seconds) On On On On Power on self-test (POST) activity Off Off Off Flashing  POST failed Off Off Flashing  Off POST passed On1 or off Off Off Off Data cartridge loading On1 or off Off Off Flashing  Data cartridge loaded, no activity On1 or off On2 or off Flashing 3 or off On Data cartridge loaded, activity On1 or off On2 or off Flashing 3 or off Flashing Data cartridge unloading On1 or off On2 or off Flashing 3 or off Flashing Data cartridge ejected On1 or off On or off Flashing 3 or off Off Cleaning cartridge loaded, activity On Off Flashing 3 or off Flashing Cleaning succeeded, cleaning cartridge ejected Off Off Flashing 3 or off Off Cleaning failed, cleaning cartridge ejected On1 On Flashing 3 or off Off Unrecoverable drive failure4 On1 or off On or off Flashing Flashing Unrecoverable media failure 4 On1 On Off Flashing, on, or off Firmware download: download and reprogram Flashing Off Off Flashing Firmware download: possible unload See Data cartridge unloading Firmware download: reset in 1 second On On On On Firmware download: self-test See Power on self-test activity, and then see either POST passed or POST failed. Firmware download reprogram failure Off Off Flashing Off SCSI diagnostics test in progress See Data cartridge loaded, activity SCSI diagnostics test passed See Data cartridge loaded, no activity SCSI diagnostics test failed, tape ejected On On On  Flashing After data cartridge ejects, see Data cartridge ejected. Tape diagnostics test in progress See Data cartridge loading and then: Flashing Off Off Flashing Tape diagnostics test passed, tape ejected Off Off Off Flashing After data cartridge ejects, see Data cartridge ejected. Tape diagnostics test failed, tape ejected On On On Flashing After data cartridge ejects, see Data cartridge ejected. 1 A solid amber Cleaning LED indicates that the drive needs cleaning. The drive will continue to function but needs cleaning as soon as possible. Do not ignore the indicator by cycling the power to turn it off. 2	The media has reached the end of  its useful life and should be replaced. Any data should be copied to a new cartridge as soon as possible. 3 Flashing in this state indicates a problem with write/read performance.  4 An unrecoverable drive failure is an error condition that results in the drive not being able to function unless initiator, operator, or service intervention is applied. An unrecoverable drive failure is usually the result of a hardware error condition. One of the following actions is needed to clear the flashing fault LED:  	Hard SCSI reset Cartridge emergency eject Power cycle Retry firmware download An unrecoverable media failure is usually the result of a defective cartridge, media, or cartridge state, and will require the drive to eject the cartridge (if possible) to clear the On LED.  
 160/320 GB DAT320 SAS tape drive (FC 5661) Feature Description Description The  is a 5.25-inch, half-high, SAS drive, which provides a high capacity for save/restore and achieve functions. To see an illustration of this drive, see . This tape drive uses  DAT320, 4 mm data cartridges and is compression capable, providing a capacity of up to 320 GB with 2:1 compression ratio. Characteristics: Drive part number: 46C1932 FRU part number: 46C1933 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 63A0 Media part numbers: see  Capacity: 160 GB native mode, 320 GB (typical) compression mode Form factor: 5.25-inch half high Media: DAT320, DAT160 Technology: helical scan, rotating head Operation: streaming Data transfer rate: 12 MBps native mode Microcode level: VS12 Interface: integrated, internal SAS with right-angle connector. Compatibility: DAT160 (read/write) and DAT320 (read/write) DAT160 media is more abrasive than DAT320 media and can be used for occasional use only. Attributes provided: DAT320 tape, test cartridge, and a cleaning cartridge Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41 mm) half-high media bay and Feature Code 3657, SAS cable with right angle connector. Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation: A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation Contact the place of purchase if an item is missing or damaged.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, see your system documentation for information about the auto-docking feature. Media This tape drive uses 4 mm data cartridges for saving and restoring system data.  It is designed to use only DDS (Digital Data Storage) data cartridges. The cartridges are identified by one of the following DDS symbols: The tape drive reads and writes data to tape cartridges that are in the DAT160 or DAT320 format. Related information Your package contains the following items: The tape drive Media kit containing:  One cleaning cartridge One test cartridge Specific hardware for attaching the drive to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your drive. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 5661) Available tape cartridges part number Type of cartridge 46C1936 DAT320 160 GB Data Cartridge  46C1938 4 mm Test Cartridge 46C1937 4 mm Cleaning Cartridge (Only use on the DAT320 tape drive) Most bulk eraser devices do not have the capability to erase the 4 mm data cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC 5661) Clean the device whenever the Fault status light comes on or a system I/O error related to the device occurs. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than recommended cleaning cartridge damages your drive and voids the warranty. The cleaning cartridge for this drive is  and it is the only cleaning cartridge that can be used in this drive. The tape drive will turn on the cleaning indicator for the following reasons:The tape drive exceeds internal preset error thresholds in the drive. A cleaning cartridge that has been used the maximum number of times is inserted in the drive. The cleaning indicator is turned on to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. The tape drive exceeds the maximum recommended time between cleaning. The tape drive determines how much to clean the drive and uses less or more cleaning media depending on what the drive determines is necessary. The average number of uses expected from a cleaning cartridge is 50, the minimum is 27, and the maximum is 70. The maximum recommended time between preventive-maintenance cleaning is 50 tape motion hours. Tape motion hours are defined as the time that the tape drive is moving tape. If the tape drive reaches 50 tape motion hours since the tape drive was last cleaned, the drive turns on the cleaning required LED to indicate the drive needs cleaning. The tape drive will continue to operate but the tape drive must be cleaned at the next opportunity to insert a cleaning cartridge.  Operating the tape drive in a low-humidity environment causes the drive to request cleaning more often than in normal humidity environment.  In extreme low-humidity conditions of less than 15% relative humidity, the tape drive might request cleaning every 10 tape motion hours or even more frequently. For this reason, it is best not to use the tape drive in extremely low-humidity environments.  To clean the tape drive, complete the following steps:   After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive does the following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by moving the cleaning tape forward for approximately 30 seconds. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete. Indicates a successful cleaning operation by turning off the Cleaning status light (if the Cleaning light was on prior to the cleaning process. Otherwise, the Cleaning light remains solid to indicate that the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. Obtain a new cleaning cartridge and repeat the process.) If the cleaning operation completes but the Cleaning light remains on, repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the light still remain on, contact your authorized service representative. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge, the drive automatically detects the error and ejects the cartridge. If the Cleaning status light was on prior to the cleaning process, it stays on; if the Cleaning light was off, the depleted cartridge causes the light to come on. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch (FC 5661)   The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape. Index number Description When the switch is set to the right, data can be written to and read from the tape. When the switch is set to the left, data can only be read. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 5661) The following illustration is a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description Cleaning LED (amber) Media fault LED (amber) Drive fault LED (amber) Encrypt LED (blue) Ready/Activity LED (green) Unload/Reset button  The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table. Activity Cleaning (amber) Tape fault (amber) Drive fault (amber) Encrypt fault (blue)  Ready/Activity (green) Power on LED test (5 seconds) On On On On On Power on self-test (POST) activity Off Off Off Off Flash_2Hz  POST failed Off Off Flash_2Hz  Off Off POST passed On1 or off Off Off Off Off Data cartridge Loading On1 or off Off Off8  Off Flash_2Hz  Loaded, no activity On1 or off On2 or off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off On Loaded, activity On1 or off On2 or off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Flash_2Hz Unloading On1 or off On2 or off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Flash_2Hz Ejected On1 or off On2 or off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Off Cleaning cartridge Loading, cleaning, unloading On Off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Flash_2Hz Ejected, clean success Off Off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Off Ejected, clean failure On1 On3 Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Off Unrecoverable media failure  On On Off Off Flash_2Hz or on or off Firmware download Unload (if cartridge present)  See: Data Cartridge Unloading Download and reprogram Flash_8Hz Off Off Off Flash_8Hz Reset (5 seconds) On On On Off On Self-tests  See Power on self-test activity, and then see either POST passed or POST failed. Firmware download fail5  This is cleared when other activity occurs10 Off Off Flash_2Hz Off Off Diagnostic tape test Eject initiated primed drive to treat inserted data cartridge as diagnostic tape Normal Normal Normal Off Flash_4Hz Initiated by SCSI diagnostic using normal data tape  In progress See Data cartridge: Loaded, activity Passed7 See Data cartridge: Loaded, no activity Failed6 On On On Normal Flash_4Hz Until tape ejected. See Data cartridge: ejected  Using tape with diagnostic tape recognition holes  In progress  See Data cartridge: loading Flash_4Hz Off Off Normal Flash_4Hz Passed9, tape ejected  Off Off Off Normal Flash_4Hz See Data cartridge: ejected Failed6  On On On Normal Flash_4Hz See Data cartridge: ejected Encryption related11 No encryption or decryption activity Normal Normal Normal Off Normal Encryption parameters are loaded; the drive is ready to read/write encrypted data Normal Normal Normal On Normal Drive is reading/writing encrypted data Normal Normal Normal Flash_2Hz Flash_2Hz Encryption parameters loaded, but the drive is reading/writing unencrypted data. Normal Normal Normal On Flash_2Hz Encryption related error exists Normal Normal Flash_4Hz Flash_4Hz Normal 1 CLEAN_LED activation in this state means the drive needs cleaning. It will be set due to hard or soft errors. It is cleared upon successful cleaning cartridge usage. State is preserved over a power cycle. 2	TAPE_LED activation in this state can only be due to a repeated hard or soft error. It is cleared when data or cleaning cartridge is inserted. 3 TAPE_LED activation in this state can only be due to a cleaning cartridge failure. It is cleared when data or cleaning cartridge is inserted. 4 DRIVE_LED activation in this state can only be due to the media management algorithm determining that the drive has a serious problem with regard to its write/read performance. It is not preserved over power cycle. 5 The firmware download failed. The firmware download should be retried.  This does not happen if the problem is simply due to an incorrect firmware image being attempted, for example, the DAT72 image being downloaded to DAT160. The purpose of this LED sequence is to show the user that the download failed and to retry the download. Examples of this are if the host failed to send all the data or if the hardware was unable to complete the task. This sequence is not activated if the microcode headers are invalid or if the code fails its checksum. 6 The LED states for SCSI/tape diagnostic failed remain until the ejection is completed and then either the Eject button is pressed or another tape is inserted. 7 The LEDs revert to nondiagnostic tape state (for example, for a loaded data tape). 8 If the drive LED is on, the tape load is not initiated. 9 The LED states for tape diagnostic passed remain until the auto-eject operation is completed. 10 The firmware download failed LEDs continue to show until another change to the LEDs is required that is due to either cartridge loading or unloading or due to tape motion. So it is not SCSI commands, as such, that clear this but the response of the LED display to those SCSI commands. Tape access commands cause cartridge or tape motion to occur. 11 IBM® does not support encryption in their systems, but the LED activity is included in the event that a user inserts a tape with encrypted data. Parent topic:          
 160/320 GB DAT320 USB tape drive (FC 5673) Feature Description Description The  is a 5.25-inch, half-high, USB drive, which provides a high capacity for save/restore and achieve functions. To see an illustration of this drive, see . This tape drive uses  DAT320, 4 mm data cartridges and is compression capable, providing a capacity of up to 320 GB with 2:1 compression ratio. Characteristics: Drive part number: 46C1934 FRU part number: 46C1935 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 63A0 Media part numbers: see  Capacity: 160 GB native mode, 320 GB (typical) compression mode Form factor: 5.25-inch half high Media: DAT320, DAT160 Technology: helical scan, rotating head Operation: streaming Data transfer rate: 12 MBps native mode Microcode level: VU10 Interface: integrated, internal USB with right-angle connector. Compatibility: DAT160 (read/write) and DAT320 (read/write) DAT160 media is more abrasive than DAT320 media and can be used for occasional use only. Attributes provided: DAT320 tape, test cartridge, and a cleaning cartridge Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41 mm) half-high media bay and Feature Code 3657, USB cable with right angle connector. Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation: A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation Contact the place of purchase if an item is missing or damaged.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, see your system documentation for information about the auto-docking feature. Media This tape drive uses 4 mm data cartridges for saving and restoring system data.  It is designed to use only DDS (Digital Data Storage) data cartridges. The cartridges are identified by one of the following DDS symbols: The tape drive reads and writes data to tape cartridges that are in the DAT160 or DAT320 format. Related information Your package contains the following items: The tape drive Media kit containing:  One cleaning cartridge One test cartridge Specific hardware for attaching the drive to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your drive. Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 5673) Available tape cartridges part number Type of cartridge 46C1936 DAT320 160 GB Data Cartridge  46C1938 4 mm Test Cartridge 46C1937 4 mm Cleaning Cartridge (Only use on the DAT320 tape drive) Most bulk eraser devices do not have the capability to erase the 4 mm data cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC 5673) Clean the device whenever the Fault status light comes on or a system I/O error related to the device occurs. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than recommended cleaning cartridge damages your drive and voids the warranty. The cleaning cartridge for this drive is  and it is the only cleaning cartridge that can be used in this drive. The tape drive will turn on the cleaning indicator for the following reasons:The tape drive exceeds internal preset error thresholds in the drive. A cleaning cartridge that has been used the maximum number of times is inserted in the drive. The cleaning indicator is turned on to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. The tape drive exceeds the maximum recommended time between cleaning. The tape drive determines how much to clean the drive and uses less or more cleaning media depending on what the drive determines is necessary. The average number of uses expected from a cleaning cartridge is 50, the minimum is 27, and the maximum is 70. The maximum recommended time between preventive-maintenance cleaning is 50 tape motion hours. Tape motion hours are defined as the time that the tape drive is moving tape. If the tape drive reaches 50 tape motion hours since the tape drive was last cleaned, the drive turns on the cleaning required LED to indicate the drive needs cleaning. The tape drive will continue to operate but the tape drive must be cleaned at the next opportunity to insert a cleaning cartridge.  Operating the tape drive in a low-humidity environment causes the drive to request cleaning more often than in normal humidity environment.  In extreme low-humidity conditions of less than 15% relative humidity, the tape drive might request cleaning every 10 tape motion hours or even more frequently. For this reason, it is best not to use the tape drive in extremely low-humidity environments.  To clean the tape drive, complete the following steps:   After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive does the following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by moving the cleaning tape forward for approximately 30 seconds. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete. Indicates a successful cleaning operation by turning off the Cleaning status light (if the Cleaning light was on prior to the cleaning process. Otherwise, the Cleaning light remains solid to indicate that the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. Obtain a new cleaning cartridge and repeat the process.) If the cleaning operation completes but the Cleaning light remains on, repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the light still remain on, contact your authorized service representative. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge, the drive automatically detects the error and ejects the cartridge. If the Cleaning status light was on prior to the cleaning process, it stays on; if the Cleaning light was off, the depleted cartridge causes the light to come on. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch   The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape. Index number Description When the switch is set to the right, data can be written to and read from the tape. When the switch is set to the left, data can only be read. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 5673) The following illustration is a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description Cleaning LED (amber) Media fault LED (amber) Drive fault LED (amber) Encrypt LED (blue) Ready/Activity LED (green) Unload/Reset button  The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table. Activity Cleaning (amber) Tape fault (amber) Drive fault (amber) Encrypt fault (blue)  Ready/Activity (green) Power on LED test (5 seconds) On On On On On Power on self-test (POST) activity Off Off Off Off Flash_2Hz  POST failed Off Off Flash_2Hz  Off Off POST passed On1 or off Off Off Off Off Data cartridge Loading On1 or off Off Off8  Off Flash_2Hz  Loaded, no activity On1 or off On2 or off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off On Loaded, activity On1 or off On2 or off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Flash_2Hz Unloading On1 or off On2 or off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Flash_2Hz Ejected On1 or off On2 or off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Off Cleaning cartridge Loading, cleaning, unloading On Off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Flash_2Hz Ejected, clean success Off Off Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Off Ejected, clean failure On1 On3 Flash_2Hz 4 or off Off Off Unrecoverable media failure  On On Off Off Flash_2Hz or on or off Firmware download Unload (if cartridge present)  See: Data Cartridge Unloading Download and reprogram Flash_8Hz Off Off Off Flash_8Hz Reset (5 seconds) On On On Off On Self-tests  See Power on self-test activity, and then see either POST passed or POST failed. Firmware download fail5  This is cleared when other activity occurs10 Off Off Flash_2Hz Off Off Diagnostic tape test Eject initiated primed drive to treat inserted data cartridge as diagnostic tape Normal Normal Normal Off Flash_4Hz Initiated by SCSI diagnostic using normal data tape  In progress See Data cartridge: Loaded, activity Passed7 See Data cartridge: Loaded, no activity Failed6 On On On Normal Flash_4Hz Until tape ejected. See Data cartridge: ejected  Using tape with diagnostic tape recognition holes  In progress  See Data cartridge: loading Flash_4Hz Off Off Normal Flash_4Hz Passed9, tape ejected  Off Off Off Normal Flash_4Hz See Data cartridge: ejected Failed6  On On On Normal Flash_4Hz See Data cartridge: ejected Encryption related11 No encryption or decryption activity Normal Normal Normal Off Normal Encryption parameters are loaded; the drive is ready to read/write encrypted data Normal Normal Normal On Normal Drive is reading/writing encrypted data Normal Normal Normal Flash_2Hz Flash_2Hz Encryption parameters loaded, but the drive is reading/writing unencrypted data. Normal Normal Normal On Flash_2Hz Encryption related error exists Normal Normal Flash_4Hz Flash_4Hz Normal 1 CLEAN_LED activation in this state means the drive needs cleaning. It will be set due to hard or soft errors. It is cleared upon successful cleaning cartridge usage. State is preserved over a power cycle. 2	TAPE_LED activation in this state can only be due to a repeated hard or soft error. It is cleared when data or cleaning cartridge is inserted. 3 TAPE_LED activation in this state can only be due to a cleaning cartridge failure. It is cleared when data or cleaning cartridge is inserted. 4 DRIVE_LED activation in this state can only be due to the media management algorithm determining that the drive has a serious problem with regard to its write/read performance. It is not preserved over power cycle. 5 The firmware download failed. The firmware download should be retried.  This does not happen if the problem is simply due to an incorrect firmware image being attempted, for example, the DAT72 image being downloaded to DAT160. The purpose of this LED sequence is to show the user that the download failed and to retry the download. Examples of this are if the host failed to send all the data or if the hardware was unable to complete the task. This sequence is not activated if the microcode headers are invalid or if the code fails its checksum. 6 The LED states for SCSI/tape diagnostic failed remain until the ejection is completed and then either the Eject button is pressed or another tape is inserted. 7 The LEDs revert to nondiagnostic tape state (for example, for a loaded data tape). 8 If the drive LED is on, the tape load is not initiated. 9 The LED states for tape diagnostic passed remain until the auto-eject operation is completed. 10 The firmware download failed LEDs continue to show until another change to the LEDs is required that is due to either cartridge loading or unloading or due to tape motion. So it is not SCSI commands, as such, that clear this but the response of the LED display to those SCSI commands. Tape access commands cause cartridge or tape motion to occur. 11 IBM® does not support encryption in their systems, but the LED activity is included in the event that a user inserts a tape with encrypted data. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch (FC 1124)   Do not attempt to change the write-protect settings after the tape cartridge is loaded in the drive, because this might cause unpredictable results, and might damage the tape or the drive. The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape. Index Description When the switch is set to the right, data can be written to and read from the tape. When the switch is set to the left, data can only be read. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 1124) The following illustration is a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description Cleaning LED (amber) Media fault LED (amber) Drive fault LED (amber) Ready/Activity LED (green) Unload/Reset button  The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table. Activity Cleaning (amber) Media fault (amber) Drive fault (amber) Ready/Activity (green) Power on LED test (2.0 seconds) On On On On Power on self-test (POST) activity Off Off Off Flashing  POST failed Off Off Flashing  Off POST passed On1 or off Off Off Off Data cartridge loading On1 or off Off Off Flashing  Data cartridge loaded, no activity On1 or off On2 or off Flashing 3 or off On Data cartridge loaded, activity On1 or off On2 or off Flashing 3 or off Flashing Data cartridge unloading On1 or off On2 or off Flashing 3 or off Flashing Data cartridge ejected On1 or off On or off Flashing 3 or off Off Cleaning cartridge loaded, activity On Off Flashing 3 or off Flashing Cleaning succeeded, cleaning cartridge ejected Off Off Flashing 3 or off Off Cleaning failed, cleaning cartridge ejected On1 On Flashing 3 or off Off Unrecoverable drive failure4 On1 or off On or off Flashing Flashing Unrecoverable media failure 4 On1 On Off Flashing, on, or off Firmware download: download and reprogram Flashing Off Off Flashing Firmware download: possible unload See Data cartridge unloading Firmware download: reset in 1 second On On On On Firmware download: self-test See Power on self-test activity, and then see either POST passed or POST failed. Firmware download reprogram failure Off Off Flashing Off SCSI diagnostics test in progress See Data cartridge loaded, activity SCSI diagnostics test passed See Data cartridge loaded, no activity SCSI diagnostics test failed, tape ejected On On On  Flashing After data cartridge ejects, see Data cartridge ejected. Tape diagnostics test in progress See Data cartridge loading and then: Flashing Off Off Flashing Tape diagnostics test passed, tape ejected Off Off Off Flashing After data cartridge ejects, see Data cartridge ejected. Tape diagnostics test failed, tape ejected On On On Flashing After data cartridge ejects, see Data cartridge ejected. 1 A solid amber Cleaning LED indicates that the drive needs cleaning. The drive will continue to function but needs cleaning as soon as possible. Do not ignore the indicator by cycling the power to turn it off. 2	The media has reached the end of  its useful life and should be replaced. Any data should be copied to a new cartridge as soon as possible. 3 Flashing in this state indicates a problem with write/read performance.  4 An unrecoverable drive failure is an error condition that results in the drive not being able to function unless initiator, operator, or service intervention is applied. An unrecoverable drive failure is usually the result of a hardware error condition. One of the following actions is needed to clear the flashing fault LED:  	Hard SCSI reset Cartridge emergency eject Power cycle Retry firmware download An unrecoverable media failure is usually the result of a defective cartridge, media, or cartridge state, and will require the drive to eject the cartridge (if possible) to clear the On LED.  Parent topic:          
 1.5/3.0 TB Ultrium 5 SAS tape drive (FC 5638) Feature Description Description The Ultrium 5 serial attached SCSI (SAS) tape drive is a half-high tape drive designed for Open Systems backup and restore applications. These files can include multimedia, imaging, transaction processing, large databases, and other storage-intensive applications. It is the fourth generation in the Ultrium series of products, and is available with a Serial Attached SCSI interface (SAS). The tape drive is an LTO Ultrium 5 standard interchange device. The drive will read tapes written by other Ultrium 5 drives, and will write to tapes readable by other Ultrium 5 drives. For an illustration of the drive, see . Characteristics: Single port 6 Gbps Serial Attached Small Computer Systems Interface (SAS) FRU part number is 46C2007. For media part numbers, see . Native storage capacity of 1500 GB per cartridge (3000 GB at 2:1 compression) Custom card identification number (CCIN) number is 63A0 Data transfer rate: 140 MB per second native mode, 240 MB per second at 2:1 compression Burst data transfer rate of 600 MB per second 256 MB read-and-write cache Support for encryption on Ultrium 5 tape cartridges Single Character Display (SCD) operator panel Ready and Fault status lights Maintenance Mode functions Downward read and write compatibility with earlier LTO-type data cartridges. Bootable device, depending on the host system configuration Operation: Streaming Half height form factor Can be used as an bootable device, depending on the host system configuration. Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation: A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation Contact the place of purchase if an item is missing or damaged.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, see your system documentation for information about the auto-docking feature. Media The drive will read and write on Ultrium 5 and Ultrium 4 cartridges, and read Ultrium 3 cartridges.  The drive will not read or write on Ultrium 2 and Ultrium 1 cartridges. Each Ultrium 5 tape cartridge can store up to 1.5 TB of uncompressed data, or up to 3.0 TB of compressed data.  The actual capacity varies depending on the application, the type of data, and the tape cartridge. When data compression is activated, 1.5 TB is typical and 3.0 TB is possible. The default setting of data compression is controlled by the host system. The user and the application software can control the activation or deactivation of the data compression setting. The drive can optimally achieve a 2:1 compression ratio. Related information Your package contains the following items: The tape drive Media kit containing:  One cleaning cartridge One test tape Specific hardware for attaching the drive to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your drive. You might need to eject a tape, reset the drive, or place the drive in maintenance mode. Use the information in this topic to perform these tasks.   Learn about using maintenance mode functions on the 5638 tape drive. Use the information in this section to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 5638) Available tape cartridgesPart number   Type of cartridge  46C2009 Test Cartridge Gen 5 35L2086 Universal LTO Cleaning Cartridge 46X1290  LTO-5 Data Cartridge( 1.5 TB / 3.0 TB), Write/Read  46C2009  LTO-5 Test Cartridge( 1.5 TB / 3.0 TB), Write/Read (not customer         orderable) 46X1292  LTO-5 Worm Data Cartridge, Write 1x/Read many  Do not attempt to bulk erase an LTO data cartridge for reuse. Bulk eraser devices cannot properly erase an LTO data cartridge and cause permanent damage to the cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Eject button functions on the tape drive (FC 5638) You might need to eject a tape, reset the drive, or place the drive in maintenance mode. Use the information in this topic to perform these tasks. The drive has an eject button that enables you to perform the functions shown in the following table. The eject button is illustrated in . Function How to start the function Reset the drive Press and hold the Unload Button until the drive begins the reset procedure (status light will be amber). If a tape cartridge is loaded in the drive, the drive will unload the tape. Repeat the reset procedure after the tape is unloaded. The drive saves a dump of the current drive state, and then reboots to allow communication. Do not cycle power as this will erase the contents of the dump. Rewind the tape into the cartridge and eject the cartridge from the tape drive Press the Unload Button once. The status light flashes green while the drive is rewinding and unloading. During a rewind and eject operation, the drive does not accept SCSI commands from the server. Place the tape drive in maintenance mode Ensure that the drive is unloaded. Then, press and hold the Unload Button for 6 seconds. The drive is in maintenance mode when the Status Light becomes solid amber and 0 appears in the SCD. While in maintenance mode, the drive does not accept SCSI commands. If you attempt to enter maintenance mode with a cartridge in the drive, the drive will rewind and eject the cartridge. Remove the cartridge and repeat the steps for entering maintenance mode. Scroll through the maintenance functions While in maintenance mode, press the Unload Button once per second to increment the display characters by one. When you reach the character of the diagnostic or maintenance function that you want (see ), press and hold the Unload Button for three seconds. Exit maintenance mode Press the Unload Button once per second until 0 is displayed. Then press and hold the Unload Button for three seconds. Maintenance mode is exited when the Status Light becomes solid green and the SCD becomes blank. Force a drive dump (part of the maintenance mode)  If the drive detects a permanent error and displays an error code, it automatically forces a drive dump (also known as a save of the firmware trace). If you force a drive dump, the existing dump will be overwritten and data will be lost. After you force a drive dump, do not turn off the power to the drive or you might lose the dump data. Choose one of the following procedures:If the drive is in maintenance mode (status light is solid amber), see  to view the available maintenance functions. If the drive is in operating mode (status light is solid or flashing green), press and hold the Unload Button for 10 seconds. If captured dump data exists, the drive places it into a dump area. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 5638) Two status light-emitting diode (LED) lights and their ISO symbols appear on the drive as follows:  Index number  Description Eject button Ready LED Encrypt LED Fault LED Single-character display (SCD) SCD light  The required preventative maintenance cleaning frequency is approximately 100 tape motion hours or when the drive indicates cleaning is required. Tape motion hours are defined as the time the tape drive is moving tape. When a fault occurs, the drive causes the AIX operating system to log an information error (TAPE_ERR6) in the AIX log, indicating that the tape drive needs to be cleaned. Use only IBM media. IBM only supports the use of IBM media and IBM cleaning cartridges. When the tape drive indicates that the drive needs to be cleaned, it is the customer's responsibility to clean the tape drive with the recommended cleaning cartridge. Mode  SCD Ready LED (green) Fault LED (amber) Operational Blank On Off Activity (tape movement) in Operational Mode Blank Flashing Off Maintenance Solid character Off On Executing Maintenance Selection Flashing character Off On Error Condition Solid character Off Flashing Power-On / Reset Initialization random segments Off On The following table lists the conditions of the Status Lights and Single-character Display (SCD) and provides an explanation of what each condition means. If the green Ready Status Light is... and the amber Fault Status Light is... and the SCD is... and the SCD Dot is... Meaning Off Off Off Off The drive has no power or is powered off. Green/Solid Off Off Off The drive is powered on and in an idle state. Flashing Green (once per second) Off Off Off The drive is reading from the tape, writing to the tape, rewinding the tape, locating data on the tape, loading the tape, or unloading the tape. Flashing Green (once per second) Off Off Off If the drive contains a cartridge during the power-on cycle, the drive completes POST and slowly rewinds the tape (the process may take up to ten minutes). The light stops blinking and becomes solid when the drive completes the recovery and ejects the cartridge. Off Amber/Solid Displaying an error code or Maintenance Mode Function On/Off The drive is displaying error code(s) from the error code log on the SCD. For information on error code and messages, see . Off/On Off/On Displaying random segments / Blank / displaying random segments / displaying 8 / Blank Off During power on, or a drive reset, the drive front panel will display drive progress as follows:SCD will display random segments (no LEDs ON). SCD will go blank (LEDs - Green ON, Amber OFF) SCD will display random segments (LEDs - Green OFF, Amber ON) SCD will display 8 (LEDs - Green OFF, Amber ON) SCD will go blank (LEDs - Green ON, Amber OFF) after a successful power on or reset. If an error is detected during the power on or reset, the tape drive posts an error code to the SCD. Off Amber/Solid Displaying 0 Off/On The drive is entering or exiting from maintenance mode. Off Amber/Solid Flashing selected function Off/On The drive is executing the selected function while in maintenance mode. Off Flashing Amber (once per second) Displaying error code Off An error occurred and the drive or media may require service, or it may require cleaning. Off Flashing Amber Displaying C Off The drive needs cleaning. Off Flashing Amber Displaying 2 Off The drive is updating firmware. Off Flashing Amber (twice per second) Off Off The drive detected an error and is performing a firmware recovery. It will reset automatically. Off Amber/Solid Displaying C Off The drive is requesting a cartridge to be loaded. Off Flashing Amber (twice per second) Off On There is a drive dump in flash memory. Error Code Cause and Action 0 No error occurred and no action is required. This code displays when diagnostics have finished running and no error occurred.  The Single-character Display is blank during normal operation of the tape drive. 1 Temperature problem. The tape drive detected that the recommended operating temperature was exceeded. Perform one or more of the following actions:Ensure that the cooling fan is rotating and is quiet. If not, refer to your enclosure documentation. Remove any blockage that prevents air from flowing freely through the tape drive. Ensure that the operating temperature and airflow is within the specified range. Clear the error code by power cycling the tape drive or placing the drive in Maintenance Mode. If the operating temperature and airflow are within the specified range, and the problem persists, replace the drive. 2 Power problem. The tape drive detected that the externally supplied power is outside the specified voltage limits (the tape drive is not operating). Perform the following action:Ensure that the power connector is properly seated. Ensure that the proper dc voltages are being applied within the tolerances allowed. If the proper voltages are not being applied, service the power supply. If the proper voltages are being applied, power off/on the tape drive to see if the problem repeats. Replace the tape drive if the problem persists.  The error code clears when you place the tape drive in maintenance mode. 3 Firmware problem. The tape drive determined that a firmware error occurred. Perform the following action: Collect a drive dump from one of the following: Do not force a new dump; the tape drive has already created one. Server’s host interface by using a device driver utility or system tool (for instructions about reading a drive dump from tape, visit the Web at http://www.ibm.com/storage/lto ) Ultrium Tape Drive (copy and read a drive dump) Power the tape drive off and on, then retry the operation that produced the error. If the problem persists, download new firmware and retry the operation. If the problem persists, send the drive dump that you collected to your IBM Support Center. The error code clears when you place the tape drive in maintenance mode. 4 Firmware or hardware problem. The tape drive determined that a firmware or tape drive hardware failure occurred. Perform the following action:Collect a drive dump from one of the following: Do not force a new dump; the tape drive has already created one. Server’s host interface by using a device driver utility or system tool (for instructions about reading a drive dump from tape, visit the Web at http://www.ibm.com/storage/lto ) Ultrium Tape Drive (copy and read a drive dump) Power the tape drive off and on, then retry the operation that produced the error. The error code clears when you place the tape drive in maintenance mode. If the problem persists, download new firmware and retry the operation; if new firmware is not available, replace the drive. 5 Tape drive hardware problem. The drive determined that a tape path or read/write error occurred. To prevent damage to the drive or tape, the tape drive will not allow you to insert a cartridge if the current cartridge was successfully ejected. The error code may clear when you cycle power to the tape drive or place it in maintenance mode. If the problem persists, replace the drive. Copy the drive dump to flash memory before returning the drive. 6 Tape drive or media error. The tape drive determined that an error occurred, but it cannot isolate the error to faulty hardware or to the tape cartridge. Ensure the tape cartridge is the correct media type:Ultrium -1 and Ultrium -2 tape cartridges are not supported in Ultrium-5 tape drives. Drive will not accept an expired Cleaning Cartridge. Drive will not accept a WORM cartridge when running diagnostic tests in Maintenance Mode. Drive will not write over existing datasets on a WORM cartridge. Ensure you are appending datasets on WORM media rather than attempting to write over existing datasets. If the tape cartridge is the correct media type, perform the following action: For Problems with Writing Data:  If the problem occurred while the tape drive was writing data to the tape, retry the operation with a different cartridge: If the operation succeeds, the original cartridge was defective. Copy data from the defective cartridge and discard it. If the operation fails and another tape drive is available, insert the cartridge into the other unit and retry the operation.If the operation fails, discard the defective cartridge. If the operation succeeds, insert a scratch data cartridge into the first unit and run the drive diagnostics.If the diagnostics fail, replace the tape drive. If the diagnostics succeed, the error was temporary. If the operation fails and another tape drive is not available, insert a scratch data cartridge into the unit and run the drive diagnostics.If the diagnostics fail, replace the tape drive. If the diagnostics succeed, discard the cartridge. If the problem occurs with multiple tape cartridges, run the drive diagnostics. The error code clears when you remove the tape cartridge or place the tape drive in maintenance mode.   For Problems with Reading Data:  If the problem occurred while the tape drive was reading data from the tape, perform one of the following procedures:If another tape drive is available, insert the cartridge into the other unit and retry the operation.If the operation fails, discard the defective cartridge. If the operation succeeds, insert a scratch data cartridge into the first unit and run the drive diagnostics.If the diagnostics fail, replace the tape drive. If the diagnostics succeed, the error was temporary. If another tape drive is not available, insert a scratch data cartridge into the unit and run the drive diagnostics.If the diagnostics fail, replace the tape drive. If the diagnostics succeed, discard the cartridge. If the problem occurs with multiple tape cartridges, run the drive diagnostics. 7 Media error. The tape drive determined an error occurred because of a faulty tape cartridge or an invalid tape cartridge. Ensure the tape cartridge is the correct media type:Ultrium -1 and Ultrium -2 tape cartridges are not supported in Ultrium-5 tape drives. Drive will not accept an expired Cleaning Cartridge. Drive will not accept a WORM cartridge when running diagnostic tests in Maintenance Mode. Drive will not accept an FMR tape. Drive will not write over existing datasets on a WORM cartridge. Ensure you are appending datasets on WORM media rather than attempting to write over existing datasets. If the tape cartridge is the correct media type, try another tape cartridge. If the problem occurs with multiple tape cartridges, use the following procedure:If possible, run the tape cartridge in a different tape drive. If the operation in the other unit fails and 6 or 7 displays, replace the media. If the operation succeeds, run Function Code E: Test Cartridge and Media.  When you run the Test Cartridge & Media diagnostic, data on the suspect tape is overwritten. Use only a scratch data cartridge to run the test.If the diagnostic fails, replace the media. If the diagnostic succeeds, clean the drive head and run Function Code 1: Run Drive Diagnostics.If the drive diagnostic fails, replace the drive. If the drive diagnostic succeeds, perform the operation that produced the initial media error. The error code clears when you remove the tape cartridge or place the tape drive in maintenance mode. 8 Interface problem. The tape drive determined that a failure occurred in the tape drive’s hardware or in the host bus. 9 Tape drive or RS-422 error. The tape drive determined that a failure occurred in the tape drive’s hardware or in the RS-422 connection. Refer to the Library procedures to isolate the problem to the drive. The error code clears when you place the tape drive in maintenance mode. A Degraded operation. The tape drive determined that a problem occurred which degraded the operation of the tape drive, but it did not restrict continued use. If the problem persists, determine whether the problem is with the drive or the media. The drive is usable, though the Single-character Display continues to indicate an error and the Status LED flashes amber. The error code may clear when you cycle power to the tape drive or place it in maintenance mode. To determine if the problem is with the drive hardware, or the tape media, perform the following procedures: If possible, run the tape cartridge in a different drive. If the operation in the other drive fails and 6 or 7 displays, replace the media. If the operation succeeds, run the Function Code E: Test cartridge and media diagnostic. If the Test cartridge and media diagnostic fails, replace the media. If it runs successfully, clean the failing drive and run the Function Code 1: drive diagnostics. Once you begin this test, the diagnostic begins the loop sequence. Time the first loop by pressing the Unload button once to stop the diagnostic after the completion of the first loop, then record the time it takes for the test to complete. Compare the recorded time with the Approximate Run Time. If the test runs successfully but the execution time is significantly longer than the Approximate Run Time, run Function Code F: Write performance test. If the Write performance test fails, replace the media and exit maintenance mode. If the drive diagnostics run successfully, perform the operation that produced the initial drive error. If the problem persists replace the drive. If it is not possible to run the tape cartridge in a different drive, perform the following procedures:Clean the failing drive and run the drive diagnostics. Once you begin this test, the diagnostic begins the loop sequence. Time the first loop by pressing the Unload button once to stop the diagnostic after the completion of the first loop, then record the time it takes for the test to complete. Compare the recorded time with the Approximate Run Time. If the test runs successfully but the execution time is significantly longer than the Approximate Run Time, run Function Code F: Write performance test. If the write performance test fails, replace the media and exit maintenance mode. If the drive diagnostics run successfully, run the Function Code E: Test cartridge and media diagnostic. If the test cartridge & media diagnostic fails, replace the media. If it runs successfully, perform the operation that produced the initial drive error. If the problem persists replace the drive. C The tape drive needs to be cleaned. Clean the tape drive. The error code clears when you clean the tape drive or place it in maintenance mode. d Fiber AL_PA conflict. NOT SUPPORTED ON THIS DRIVE. e Encryption Error. Displayed when the drive detects an error associated with a encryption operation. If the problem occurred while the tape drive was writing data to, or reading data from, tape:Check the host application to ensure the host application is providing the correct encryption key.Refer to the IBM Tape Device Drivers Encryption Support documentation and the IBM LTO Ultrium Tape Drive SCSI Reference documentation for the Sense Data returned for an encryption operation. Retry the encryption operation after the host application problems have been resolved. Check the operation of the tape drive by resetting the drive and running POST.Refer to the error code displayed on the SCD if the drive reset and POST fails. Retry the encryption operation if the drive reset and POST complete without errors. Check the media.Ensure the correct media is being used. Data encryption is supported with LTO Ultrium 5 Data Cartridges only. Retry the encryption operation with the tape cartridge in another encryption enabled drive. Replace the media if the problem repeats with the same tape cartridge in multiple drives. If the problem occurred while the tape drive was running POST or diagnostics, replace the drive.The error code clears with the first attempted write/read after the encryption key is changed, or when the drive is placed in maintenance mode. E Fiber Port offline. NOT SUPPORTED ON THIS DRIVE. F Fiber Channel Error. NOT SUPPORTED ON THIS DRIVE. J Incompatible Media. Media that the drive cannot execute commands on has been loaded. P Write operation to a write protected cartridge has been attempted (this includes any attempt to overwrite a WORM protected tape). Ensure the tape cartridge is the correct media type. Writes to Ultrium-2 tape cartridges are not supported in Ultrium-5 tape drives. If the tape cartridge is the correct media type, check the write-protect switch on the cartridge. The drive will not write to a write-protected cartridge. The error code clears when you remove the tape cartridge or place the tape drive in maintenance mode. Bouncing o Broken or excessive slack tape. Drive has encountered a condition where it cannot unload the tape or determine that the tape is in the path of the head. Manual intervention required. Figure 8 Mid Tape Recovery. Drive is recovering from a power cycle with a tape in the drive. The ‘figure 8’ is broken up with a countdown indicating progress in ten’s percentage to completion: 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC 5638) Clean the LTO-5 tape drive whenever C displays on the Single-character Display and the Status Light is flashing amber once per second or when a system I/O error related to the device occurs. It is not recommended that you clean the drive head on a periodic basis; only when the drive requests to be cleaned. The LTO-5 tape drive monitors the amount of time between cleaning operations and displays the C when required. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than the recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty.  In Maintenance Mode, a flashing C with the solid amber Fault LED indicates that a cartridge should be inserted. This does not indicate that the drive head requires cleaning. To clean the LTO tape drive, complete the following steps:   The IBM cleaning cartridge is designed to be used for 50 cleanings. Once a cleaning cartridge has been used to its maximum number of uses, the cartridge is considered expired. When the cleaning cartridge has been used 50 times, discard the cleaning cartridge. The LTO tape drive will detect, and automatically eject, an expired cartridge. Using the cleaning cartridge more than 50 times can cause debris to be deposited on the drive head, which may result in errors or inferior data quality. After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive using the cleaning tape. Cleaning time may take from 30 seconds to 3 minutes, depending upon the number of times that the cleaning cartridge has been used. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete.  If the cleaning operation is completed but the C in the SCD remains on, the cleaning cartridge might not be usable. Repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the C in the SCD still remains on, contact your authorized service provider. To determine how many times a cleaning cartridge can be used, check the information printed on the cartridge. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge the fault indicator will be turned on and the SCD displays 6 or 7 to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. If the fault indicator was lit and a C was in the SCD prior to the cleaning process, the indicators will stay on after the depleted cleaning cartridge is removed. If these indicators were off prior to inserting the depleted cleaning cartridge, they will turn off once the depleted cleaning cartridge is removed from the drive. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, and then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Maintenance mode (FC 5638) Learn about using maintenance mode functions on the 5638 tape drive. Performing operations using the front panel Perform maintenance operations by pushing the eject button while observing the status LED and the single-character display. Entering maintenance mode The drive must be in maintenance mode to run drive diagnostics or maintenance functions. To place the unit in maintenance mode:Make sure that no cartridge is in the drive. Press and hold the Unload Button for 6 seconds. A 0 appears in the Single-character Display (SCD), and the Fault Light turns amber.  If a cartridge is in the tape drive, it will eject the first time that you press the Unload Button and the drive will not be placed in maintenance mode. To continue placing the drive in maintenance mode, perform the preceding step. While in Maintenance Mode, the drive will not accept a cartridge unless the drive requests it. The SCD will display a flashing C to indicate a cartridge needs to be inserted. Maintenance functions cannot be performed concurrently with read or write operations. While in maintenance mode, the drive does not receive commands from the server. Scrolling through maintenance optionsWith the drive in maintenance mode, press the eject push button at a rate of once per second. The single-character display code increments by one each time you press the eject push button.    Do not press the eject push button more frequently than once per second or the selected maintenance function will occur instead of the desired scrolling operation.  After the last maintenance function is reached, the display code wraps to 0. Unassigned digits (B, D, and G) are not displayed when the options are incremented. 	The following table lists the maintenance functions. Maintenance functions Display code Normal mode  None Maintenance mode  0 Run drive diagnostics  1 Update drive firmware from FMR tape 2 Create FMR tape  3 Force a drive dump (same as pressing the eject button for 10 or more seconds, except it does not cause a reset operation) 4 Copy drive dump to tape at the beginning of tape 5 Copy drive dump to tape  5-1 Copy drive dump to flash memory  5-8 Clear flash dump  5-3 No function 5 -0 Run host interface wrap test 6 Test the primary SAS port  6-1 Test the secondary SAS port 6-8 Test both primary and secondary SAS ports at the same time (requires a wrap plug in both ports) 6-3 Exit 6-0 Run RS-422 wrap test 7 Unmake FMR tape 8 Display error code log  9 Clear error code log  A Insert cartridge into tape drive  C Test cartridge and media  E Write performance test F Test head  H Fast read/write test  J Load/unload test L Enable post-error reporting P Disable post-error reporting U Running a maintenance functionTo run the maintenance function indicated by the character on the single-character display, press and hold the eject button for 2 seconds.  The single digit flashes the selected maintenance function code during the running of the operation.  If the drive runs the function successfully, the single-character display indicates 0.  If the function fails, the status LED indicates continuous yellow and the single-character display indicates the reason for the error by displaying an error code. For a meaning of status lights and single-character display, see . Exiting maintenance modeThe drive must be in maintenance mode to run drive diagnostics or maintenance functions. To exit maintenance mode:Press and hold the Unload Button for 3 or more seconds then release the button to take the drive out of maintenance mode. If no error is detected, 0 temporarily appears in the SCD, then goes blank. The drive then exits maintenance mode and the Status Light will return to Green. If an error is detected, the SCD shows an error code but still exits maintenance mode. To clear the error, turn the power off, then on again.  The drive also exits maintenance mode automatically after it completes a maintenance function or after 10 minutes if no action has occurred. Running a dump operation when not in maintenance mode To perform a drive dump operation, press and hold the eject button for 10 or more seconds.  The microcode goes to its initialized state after a dump operation.  Data from a dump operation is for use by trained personnel for problem determination. Parent topic:          
 Performing the internal self-test (FC 5638) Use the information in this section to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. This procedure is designed to allow you to quickly perform a complete set of diagnostic tests on your LTO-4 tape drive, without impacting server operation.  This 4-minute test can also be used to verify good performance of individual LTO tape cartridges. For an illustration of the tape drive and the LED status lights that are referred to in this procedure, see . PrerequisitesIn order to perform the test you need a blank LTO-5 (Ultrium 5) data cartridge. If an Ultrium-5 data cartridge is not available, an Ultrium-4 cartridge can be substituted. Performing the testFollow these steps to perform the test: Use a blank data cartridge to perform the test. During the test, the tape will be overwritten with a test pattern and all data on the tape will be destroyed. Enter diagnostic mode by doing the following steps:Verify that a tape cartridge is not loaded in the drive. To unload a cartridge, press the eject button on the front of the drive.  Press and hold the eject button for 7 seconds, until all LEDs become active, and then release the button. The Ready LED will continue flashing, the Fault LED will remain on, and a 1 is displayed in the Single-character display (SCD). This combination indicates that the drive is waiting for a cartridge to be inserted. Start the self-test by inserting a blank, Ultrium 5 data cartridge into the drive.  If an Ultrium-5 data cartridge is not available, an Ultrium-4 cartridge can be substituted.  A cartridge must be loaded within 15 seconds or the drive will automatically revert back to normal operation.  If necessary, return to step 1 to reenter diagnostic mode. The test takes about 4 minutes. Use a cartridge that is not write-protected.  If a write-protected cartridge is inserted while the drive is in diagnostic mode, the cartridge will be ejected. See . Self-testing can only be performed using a write-compatible (either Ultrium-4 or Ultrium-3) cartridge type, and with a cartridge that is not damaged. See . If a cleaning cartridge is inserted while the drive is in diagnostic mode, it will be ejected. While self-testing is in progress, the LEDs will remain active and the following test steps are performed:  The hardware test runs for about one minute. During that time, a static test is performed on the electrical components of the drive, and proper operation of the cartridge load/unload mechanism is verified.   The write/read test runs for about three minutes.  Interpreting the resultsResult Description Test passed When self-testing has completed successfully and no problems were detected, the cartridge is unloaded from the drive and all LEDs are off.  Proper function of both the drive and tape cartridge have been verified. The drive is no longer in diagnostic mode, and has been returned to normal operation.  If the yellow Fault LED remains on and a C is displayed in the SCD, this combination indicates that self-testing has completed successfully but that cleaning is required.  Drive failure When a drive problem is detected, the cartridge remains loaded inside the drive, the yellow Fault LED flashes, and a 5 is displayed in the SCD. Replace the tape drive. Media failure When a media problem is detected, the cartridge remains loaded inside the drive, the yellow Fault LED remains on, and a 7 is displayed in the SCD. Repeat the self-test using another blank tape cartridge and discard the defective media.   Incorrect cartridge When an incorrect tape cartridge is used for the test, the cartridge is unloaded, the yellow Fault LED remains on, and a P, 7, or J is displayed in the SCD.  This can happen if the cartridge is:Write-protected (P is displayed in the SCD.) Damaged (7 is displayed in the SCD.) Not write-compatible with the drive (J is displayed in the SCD.) Press the eject button to end the self-test and return the drive to normal operating mode.  Then return to step 1 and run the self-test again using a suitable cartridge. Returning to normal operationWhen self-testing has completed successfully, the tape cartridge is unloaded. The drive is no longer in diagnostic mode and returns to normal operation. When self-testing fails, the tape cartridge remains loaded inside the drive, and the drive remains in diagnostic mode. Press the eject button to unload tape cartridge and return drive to normal operation. Parent topic:          
 2.5/6.25 TB Ultrium 6 SAS tape drive (FC EU11) Feature  Description Description The Ultrium 6 serial-attached SCSI (SAS) tape drive is a half-high tape drive designed for Open Systems backup and restore applications. These files can include multimedia, imaging, transaction processing, large databases, and other storage-intensive applications. It is the fourth generation in the Ultrium series of products, and is available with a SAS interface. The tape drive is an LTO Ultrium 6 standard interchange device. The drive reads tapes written by other Ultrium 6 drives, and writes to tapes that are readable by other Ultrium 6 drives. For an illustration of the drive, see . Characteristics: Single port 6 Gbps Serial Attached Small Computer Systems Interface (SAS) Field Replaceable Unit (FRU) part number is 35P1049. For media part numbers, see . Native storage capacity of 2.5 TB per cartridge (6.25 TB at 2.4:1 compression) Custom card identification number (CCIN) is 63A0 Data transfer rate: 160 MB per second native mode, 400 MB per second at 2.4:1 compression Burst data transfer rate of 600 MB per second 256 MB read-and-write cache Support for encryption on Ultrium 4, 5, and 6 tape cartridges Single-character display (SCD) operator panel Ready and Fault status lights Maintenance mode functions Downward read and write compatibility with earlier LTO-type data cartridges. Operation: Streaming Half-height form factor Can be used as a bootable device, depending on the host system configuration. Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation: A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation Contact the place of purchase if an item is missing or damaged.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, see your system documentation for information about the auto-docking feature. Media The drive reads and writes on Ultrium 6 and Ultrium 5 cartridges, and reads Ultrium 4 cartridges.  The drive cannot read or write on Ultrium 3, Ultrium 2, and Ultrium 1 cartridges. Each Ultrium 6 tape cartridge can store up to 2.5 TB of uncompressed data, or up to 6.25 TB of compressed data.  The actual capacity varies depending on the application, the type of data, and the tape cartridge. When data compression is activated, 2.5 TB is typical and 6.25 TB is possible. The default setting of data compression is controlled by the host system. The user and the application software can control the activation or deactivation of the data compression setting. The drive can optimally achieve a 2:1 compression ratio. Related information Your package contains the following items: The tape drive Media kit containing:  One cleaning cartridge One test tape Specific hardware for attaching the drive to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your drive. You might need to eject a tape, reset the drive, or place the drive in maintenance mode. Use the information in this topic to perform these tasks.   Learn about using maintenance mode functions on the EU11 tape drive. Use the information in this topic to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC EU11) Part number   Type of cartridge  00V7590 LTO-6 Data Cartridge (2.5 TB / 6.2 TB), Write/Read 46C2829 LTO-6 Test Cartridge (2.5 TB / 6.2 TB), Write/Read (not customer orderable)  The preceding tapes are 810 m (2,657 ft). 00V7591 LTO-6 Worm Data Cartridge 35L2086 Universal Cleaning Cartridge Feature code Part number Description EU17 00V7590 2.5 TB Ultrium-6 Tape Cartridge EU18 00V7590 A five pack of 2.5 TB Ultrium-6 Tape Cartridge  Do not attempt to bulk erase an LTO data cartridge for reuse. Bulk eraser devices cannot properly erase an LTO data cartridge, and they cause permanent damage to the cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Eject button functions on the tape drive (FC EU11) You might need to eject a tape, reset the drive, or place the drive in maintenance mode. Use the information in this topic to perform these tasks. The drive has an eject button that enables you to perform the functions shown in the following table. The eject button is illustrated in . Function How to start the function Reset the drive Press and hold the Unload Button until the drive begins the reset procedure, at which the status light will turn amber. If a tape cartridge is loaded in the drive, the drive unloads the tape. Repeat the reset procedure after the tape is unloaded. The drive saves a dump of the current drive state, and then reboots to allow communication. Do not cycle power because this action erases the contents of the dump. Rewind the tape into the cartridge and eject the cartridge from the tape drive Press the Unload Button once. The status light flashes green while the drive is rewinding and unloading. During a rewind and eject operation, the drive does not accept SCSI commands from the server. Place the tape drive in maintenance mode Ensure that the drive is unloaded. Then, press and hold the Unload Button for 6 seconds. The drive is in maintenance mode when the status light becomes solid amber and 0 is shown in the SCD. While in maintenance mode, the drive does not accept SCSI commands. If you attempt to enter maintenance mode with a cartridge in the drive, the drive will rewind and eject the cartridge. Remove the cartridge and repeat the steps for entering maintenance mode. Scroll through the maintenance functions While in maintenance mode, press the Unload Button once per second to increment the display characters by one. When you reach the character of the diagnostic or maintenance function that you want (see ), press and hold the Unload Button for three seconds. Exit maintenance mode Press the Unload Button once per second until 0 is displayed. Then press and hold the Unload Button for three seconds. After the status sight becomes solid green and the SCD becomes blank, the drive exits the maintenance mode. Force a drive dump (The function is part of the maintenance mode.)  If the drive detects a permanent error and displays an error code, it automatically forces a drive dump (also known as saving the firmware trace). If you force a drive dump, the existing dump is overwritten and data is lost. After you force a drive dump, do not turn off the power to the drive or you might lose the dump data. Choose one of the following procedures:If the drive is in maintenance mode (that is, the status light is solid amber), see  to view the available maintenance functions. If the drive is in operating mode (that is, status light is solid or flashing green), press and hold the Unload Button for 10 seconds. If captured dump data exists, the drive places it into a dump area. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC EU11) Two status light-emitting diode (LED) lights and their ISO symbols are located on the drive as shown in the following figure:  Index Description Eject button Ready LED Encrypt LED Fault LED Single-character display (SCD) SCD light  The preventative maintenance cleaning frequency is approximately 100 tape motion hours or when the drive indicates that cleaning is required. Tape motion hours are defined as the time the tape drive is moving tape. When a fault occurs, the drive causes AIX to log an information error (TAPE_ERR6) in the AIX log, indicating that the tape drive needs to be cleaned. Use only IBM media. IBM only supports the use of IBM media and IBM cleaning cartridges. When the tape drive indicates that the drive needs to be cleaned, it is the customer's responsibility to clean the tape drive with the recommended cleaning cartridge. Mode  SCD Ready LED (green) Fault LED (amber) Operational Blank On Off Activity (tape movement) in operational mode Blank Flashing Off Maintenance Solid character Off On Processing maintenance selection Flashing character Off On Error Condition Solid character Off Flashing Power-on / reset initialization Random segments Off On The following table lists the conditions of the status light and the single-character display (SCD). The table also provides an explanation of what each condition means. Green ready status light Amber fault status light SCD SCD Dot Meaning Off Off Off Off The drive has no power or is powered off. Solid green Off Off Off The drive is powered on and in an idle state. Flashing green (once per second) Off Off Off The drive is reading from the tape, writing to the tape, rewinding the tape, locating data on the tape, loading the tape, or unloading the tape. Flashing green (once per second) Off Off Off If the drive contains a cartridge during the power-on cycle, the drive completes POST and slowly rewinds the tape. The process might take up to 10 minutes. The light stops blinking and becomes solid after the drive completes the recovery and ejects the cartridge. Off Solid amber Displaying an error code or maintenance mode function On or off The drive is displaying error codes from the error code log on the SCD. For information on error code and messages, see . On or off On or off Displays random segments or is blank or displays random segments or displays 8 or is blank Off During power on or during a drive reset, the drive front panel will displays the drive progress as follows:SCD displays random segments (no LEDs on). SCD goes blank (green LED is on, amber LED is off) SCD displays random segments (green LED is off, amber LED is on) SCD displays 8 (green LED is off, amber LED is on) SCD goes blank (green LED is on, amber LED is off) after a successful power on or reset. If an error is detected during the power on or reset, the tape drive posts an error code to the SCD. Off Solid amber Displaying 0 Off/On The drive is entering or exiting from maintenance mode. Off Solid amber Flashing selected function Off/On The drive is processing the selected function while in maintenance mode. Off Flashing amber (once per second) Displaying error code Off An error occurred. and the drive or media might require service, or it might require cleaning. Off Flashing amber Displaying C Off The drive needs cleaning. Off Flashing amber Displaying 2 Off The drive is updating firmware. Off Flashing amber (twice per second) Off Off The drive detected an error and is performing a firmware recovery. It resets automatically. Off Solid amber Displaying C Off The drive is requesting a cartridge to be loaded. Off Flashing amber (twice per second) Off On A drive dump is in the flash memory. Error Code Cause and action 0 No error occurred and no action is required. This code is displayed when diagnostics finish running and no error occurs.  The single-character display is blank during normal operation of the tape drive. 1 Temperature problem. The tape drive detected that the recommended operating temperature was exceeded. Complete one or more of the following actions:Ensure that the cooling fan is rotating and is quiet. If not, refer to your enclosure documentation. Remove any blockage that prevents air from flowing freely through the tape drive. Ensure that the operating temperature and airflow is within the specified range. Clear the error code by power cycling the tape drive or placing the drive in maintenance mode. If the operating temperature and airflow are within the specified range, and the problem persists, replace the drive. 2 Power problem. The tape drive detected that the externally supplied power is outside the specified voltage limits (the tape drive is not operating). Complete the following actions:Ensure that the power connector is properly seated. Ensure that the proper dc voltages are being applied within the tolerances allowed. If the proper voltages are not being applied, service the power supply. If the proper voltages are being applied, turn the tape drive off and on to see if the problem is repeated. Replace the tape drive if the problem persists.  The error code clears after you place the tape drive in maintenance mode. 3 Firmware problem. The tape drive detected that a firmware error occurred. Complete the following actions: Collect a drive dump from one of the following: Do not force a new dump. The tape drive has already created one. Server’s host interface by using a device driver utility or system tool. For instructions about reading a drive dump from tape, see LTO storage website at  (http://www.ibm.com/storage/lto). Ultrium Tape Drive. Copy and read a drive dump. Power the tape drive off and on, and then retry the operation that produced the error. If the problem persists, download new firmware and retry the operation. If the problem persists, send the drive dump that you collected to your IBM Support Center. The error code clears when you place the tape drive in maintenance mode. 4 Firmware or hardware problem. The tape drive detected that a firmware or tape drive hardware failure occurred. Complete the following actions:Collect a drive dump from one of the following: Do not force a new dump. The tape drive has already created one. Server’s host interface by using a device driver utility or system tool. For instructions about reading a drive dump from tape, see LTO storage website at  (http://www.ibm.com/storage/lto). Ultrium Tape Drive. Copy and read a drive dump. Turn the tape drive off and on, and then retry the operation that produced the error. The error code clears when you place the tape drive in maintenance mode. If the problem persists, download new firmware and retry the operation. If new firmware is not available, replace the drive. 5 Tape drive hardware problem. The drive detected that a tape path or read/write error occurred. To prevent damage to the drive or tape, the tape drive does not allow you to insert a cartridge if the current cartridge is successfully ejected. The error code might clear when you cycle power to the tape drive or place it in maintenance mode. If the problem persists, replace the drive. Copy the drive dump to flash memory before returning the drive. 6 Tape drive or media error. The tape drive detected that an error occurred, but it cannot isolate the error to faulty hardware or to the tape cartridge. Ensure the tape cartridge is the correct media type:Ultrium-1, Ultrium-2, and Ultrium-3 tape cartridges are not supported in Ultrium-6 tape drives. The drive does not accept an expired cleaning cartridge. The drive does not accept a WORM cartridge when you run diagnostic tests in Maintenance Mode. The drive does not write over existing data sets on a WORM cartridge. Ensure that you are appending data sets on WORM media rather than attempting to write over existing data sets. If the tape cartridge is the correct media type, complete the following actions: For problems with writing data:   If the problem occurred while the tape drive was writing data to the tape, retry the operation with a different cartridge:If the operation succeeds, the original cartridge was defective. Copy data from the defective cartridge and discard it. If the operation fails and another tape drive is available, insert the cartridge into the other unit and retry the operation.If the operation fails, discard the defective cartridge. If the operation succeeds, insert a scratch data cartridge into the first unit and run the drive diagnostics.If the diagnostics fail, replace the tape drive. If the diagnostics succeed, the error was temporary. If the operation fails and another tape drive is not available, insert a scratch data cartridge into the unit and run the drive diagnostics.If the diagnostics fail, replace the tape drive. If the diagnostics succeed, discard the cartridge. If the problem occurs with multiple tape cartridges, run the drive diagnostics.The error code clears after you remove the tape cartridge or when place the tape drive in maintenance mode.   For Problems with Reading Data:  If the problem occurred while the tape drive was reading data from the tape, perform one of the following procedures:If another tape drive is available, insert the cartridge into the other unit and retry the operation.If the operation fails, discard the defective cartridge. If the operation succeeds, insert a scratch data cartridge into the first unit and run the drive diagnostics.If the diagnostics fail, replace the tape drive. If the diagnostics succeed, the error was temporary. If another tape drive is not available, insert a scratch data cartridge into the unit and run the drive diagnostics.If the diagnostics fail, replace the tape drive. If the diagnostics succeed, discard the cartridge. If the problem occurs with multiple tape cartridges, run the drive diagnostics. 7 Media error. The tape drive detected an error occurred because of a faulty tape cartridge or an invalid tape cartridge. Ensure that the tape cartridge is the correct media type:Ultrium-1, Ultrium-2, and Ultrium-3 tape cartridges are not supported in Ultrium-6 tape drives. The drive does not accept an expired cleaning cartridge. The drive does not accept a WORM cartridge when running diagnostic tests in maintenance mode. The drive does not accept an FMR tape. The drive does not write over existing data sets on a WORM cartridge. Ensure you are appending data sets on WORM media rather than attempting to write over existing data sets. If the tape cartridge is the correct media type, try another tape cartridge. If the problem occurs with multiple tape cartridges, use the following procedure:If possible, run the tape cartridge in a different tape drive. If the operation in the other unit fails and 6 or 7 is displayed, replace the media. If the operation succeeds, run function code E, Test cartridge and media.  When you run the Test cartridge and media diagnostic test, data on the suspect tape is overwritten. Use only a scratch data cartridge to run the test.If the diagnostic fails, replace the media. If the diagnostic succeeds, clean the drive head and run function code 1, Run drive diagnostics.If the drive diagnostic fails, replace the drive. If the drive diagnostic succeeds, complete the operation that produced the initial media error. The error code clears when you remove the tape cartridge or place the tape drive in maintenance mode. 8 Interface problem. The tape drive detected that a failure occurred in the tape drive’s hardware or in the host bus. 9 Tape drive or RS-422 error. The tape drive detected that a failure occurred in the tape drive’s hardware or in the RS-422 connection. The error code clears when you place the tape drive in maintenance mode. A Degraded operation. The tape drive detected that a problem occurred that degraded the operation of the tape drive, but it did not restrict continued use. If the problem persists, determine whether the problem is with the drive or the media. The drive is usable, though the single-character display continues to indicate an error and the status LED flashes amber. The error code might clear when you cycle power to the tape drive or place it in maintenance mode. To determine whether the problem is with the drive hardware, or the tape media, complete the following steps: If possible, run the tape cartridge in a different drive. If the operation in the other drive fails and 6 or 7 is displayed, replace the media. If the operation succeeds, run the function code E, Test cartridge and media diagnostic. If the Test cartridge and media diagnostic fails, replace the media. If it runs successfully, clean the failing drive and run the function code 1, Drive diagnostics. After you begin this test, the diagnostic test begins the loop sequence. Time the first loop by pressing the Unload button once to stop the diagnostics after the completion of the first loop, and then record the time it takes for the test to complete. Compare the recorded time with the approximate run time. If the test runs successfully but the execution time is significantly longer than the approximate run time, run function code F, Write performance test. If the Write performance test fails, replace the media and exit maintenance mode. If the drive diagnostics run successfully, perform the operation that produced the initial drive error. If the problem persists, replace the drive. If it is not possible to run the tape cartridge in a different drive, complete the following steps:Clean the failing drive and run the drive diagnostics. After you begin this test, the diagnostic test begins the loop sequence. Time the first loop by pressing the Unload button once to stop the diagnostics after the completion of the first loop, and then record the time it takes for the test to complete. Compare the recorded time with the approximate run time. If the test runs successfully but the execution time is significantly longer than the approximate run time, run function code F, Write performance test. If the write performance test fails, replace the media and exit maintenance mode. If the drive diagnostics run successfully, run the function code E, Test cartridge and media diagnostic. If the test cartridge & media diagnostic fails, replace the media. If it runs successfully, perform the operation that produced the initial drive error. If the problem persists, replace the drive. C The tape drive needs to be cleaned. Clean the tape drive. The error code clears when you clean the tape drive or place it in maintenance mode. d Fiber AL_PA conflict. This function is not supported on this drive. e Encryption Error. This error code is displayed when the drive detects an error that is associated with an encryption operation. If the problem occurred while the tape drive was writing data to or reading data from tape, complete the following steps:Check the host application to ensure that the host application is providing the correct encryption key.See the IBM Tape Device Drivers Encryption Support documentation and the IBM LTO Ultrium Tape Drive SCSI Reference documentation for the sense data returned for an encryption operation. Retry the encryption operation after the host application problems are resolved. Check the operation of the tape drive by resetting the drive and running POST.If resetting the drive and POST fails, see the error code displayed on the SCD. If resetting the drive and POST completes without errors, retry the encryption operation. Check the media.Ensure that the correct media is being used. Data encryption is supported with LTO Ultrium-4, Ultrium-5, and Ultrium-6  Data Cartridges only. Retry the encryption operation with the tape cartridge in another encryption enabled drive. If the problem is repeated with the same tape cartridge in multiple drives, replace the media. If the problem occurred while the tape drive was running POST or diagnostics, replace the drive.The error code clears with the first attempted write/read operation after the encryption key is changed, or when the drive is placed in maintenance mode. E Fiber Port offline. This error code is not supported on this drive. F Fiber Channel error. This error code is not supported on this drive. J Incompatible media. Media on which the drive cannot run commands has been loaded. P Write operation to a write-protected cartridge has been attempted (this includes any attempt to overwrite a WORM-protected tape). Ensure that the tape cartridge is the correct media type. Write operations to Ultrium-4 tape cartridges are not supported in Ultrium-6 tape drives. If the tape cartridge is the correct media type, check the write-protect switch on the cartridge. The drive does not write to a write-protected cartridge. The error code clears when you remove the tape cartridge or place the tape drive in maintenance mode. Bouncing o Broken or excessive slack tape. The drive encountered a condition where it cannot unload the tape or determine that the tape is in the path of the head. Manual intervention is required. Figure 8 Mid tape recovery. The drive is recovering from a power cycle with a tape in the drive. The Figure 8 error code is broken up with a countdown indicating progress in tenths of a percent to completion: 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC EU11) Clean the LTO-6 tape drive whenever C is displayed on the single-character display and the status light is flashing amber once per second or when a system I/O error related to the device occurs. Do not clean the drive head on a periodic basis. Only clean the drive head when the drive requests. The LTO-6 tape drive monitors the amount of time between cleaning operations and displays the C when required. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than the recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty.  In maintenance mode, a flashing C with the solid amber fault LED indicates that a cartridge must be inserted. This error code does not indicate that the drive head requires cleaning. To clean the LTO tape drive, complete the following steps:   The IBM cleaning cartridge is designed to be used for 50 cleanings. After a cleaning cartridge has been used to its maximum number of uses, the cartridge is considered expired. When the cleaning cartridge has been used 50 times, discard the cleaning cartridge. The LTO tape drive detects and automatically ejects an expired cartridge. Use of the cleaning cartridge for more than 50 times can cause debris to be deposited on the drive head, which might result in errors or inferior data quality. After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive completes the following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by using the cleaning tape. Cleaning time might take from 30 seconds to 3 minutes, depending on the number of times that the cleaning cartridge has been used. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is completed.  If the cleaning operation is completed but the C in the SCD remains on, the cleaning cartridge might not be usable. Repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the C in the SCD still remains on, contact your authorized service provider. To determine how many times a cleaning cartridge can be used, check the information printed on the cartridge. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge, the fault indicator is turned on and the SCD displays 6 or 7 to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and that the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. If the fault indicator was lit and a C was shown in the SCD prior to the cleaning process, the indicators stay on after the depleted cleaning cartridge is removed. If these indicators were off prior to inserting the depleted cleaning cartridge, they will turn off after the depleted cleaning cartridge is removed from the drive. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, and then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Maintenance mode (FC EU11) Learn about using maintenance mode functions on the EU11 tape drive. Performing operations using the front panel Perform maintenance operations by pushing the eject button while observing the status LED and the single-character display. Entering maintenance mode The drive must be in maintenance mode to run drive diagnostics or maintenance functions. To place the unit in maintenance mode complete the following steps:Make sure that no cartridge is in the drive. Press and hold the Unload Button for 6 seconds. A 0 is shown in the single-character display (SCD), and the fault light turns amber.  If a tape cartridge is in the tape drive, the drive ejects the tape cartridge the first time that you press the Unload button, and the drive will not be placed in maintenance mode. To continue placing the drive in maintenance mode, perform the  again. While in maintenance mode, the drive does not accept a tape cartridge unless the drive requests it. The SCD displays a flashing C to indicate that a tape cartridge needs to be inserted. Maintenance functions cannot be performed concurrently with read or write operations. While in maintenance mode, the drive does not receive commands from the server. Scrolling through maintenance optionsWith the drive in maintenance mode, press the eject button at a rate of once per second. The single-character display code increments by one each time you press the eject button.    Do not press the eject button more frequently than once per second or the selected maintenance function processes instead of the desired scrolling operation.  After the last maintenance function is reached, the display code wraps to 0. Unassigned digits (B, D, and G) are not displayed when the options are incremented.	The following table lists the maintenance functions. Maintenance functions Display code Normal mode  None Maintenance mode  0 Run drive diagnostics  1 Update the drive firmware from the field microcode replacement (FMR) tape 2 Create the FMR tape  3 Force a drive dump (same as pressing the eject button for 10 or more seconds, except it does not cause a reset operation) 4 Copy the drive dump to tape at the beginning of tape 5 Copy the drive dump to tape  5-1 Copy the drive dump to flash memory  5-8 Clear the flash dump  5-3 No function 5 -0 Run the host interface wrap test 6 Test the primary SAS port  6-1 Test the secondary SAS port 6-8 Test both the primary and secondary SAS ports at the same time (requires a wrap plug in both ports) 6-3 Exit 6-0 Run the RS-422 wrap test 7 Unmake the FMR tape 8 Display the error code log  9 Clear the error code log  A Insert the tape cartridge into the tape drive  C Test the tape cartridge and the media  E Write a performance test F Test the head  H Fast read/write test  J Load/unload test L Enable posterror reporting P Disable posterror reporting U Running a maintenance functionTo run the maintenance function indicated by the character on the single-character display, press and hold the eject button for 2 seconds.  The single digit flashes the selected maintenance function code during the running of the operation.  If the drive runs the function successfully, the single-character display indicates 0.  If the function fails, the status LED indicates continuous yellow and the single-character display indicates the reason for the error by displaying an error code. For more information, see . Exiting maintenance modeThe drive must be in maintenance mode to run drive diagnostics or maintenance functions. To exit maintenance mode, complete the following steps: Press and hold the Unload button for 3 or more seconds, and then release the button to take the drive out of maintenance mode. If no error is detected, 0 is shown temporarily in the SCD, and then the SCD goes blank. The drive then exits maintenance mode and the status light returns to green. If an error is detected, the SCD shows an error code but still exits maintenance mode. To clear the error, turn the drive off and then on again.  The drive also automatically exits maintenance mode after it completes a maintenance function or after 10 minutes if no action has occurred. Running a dump operation when not in maintenance mode To perform a drive dump operation, press and hold the eject button for 10 or more seconds.  The microcode goes to its initialized state after a dump operation.  Data from a dump operation is for use by trained personnel for problem determination. Parent topic:          
 Performing the internal self-test (FC EU11) Use the information in this topic to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. Use this procedure to quickly perform a complete set of diagnostic tests on your LTO-6 tape drive, without impacting server operation.  This 4-minute test can also be used to verify good performance of individual LTO tape cartridges. For an illustration of the tape drive and the LED status lights that are referred to in this procedure, see . PrerequisitesTo perform the test, you need a blank LTO-6 (Ultrium 6) data cartridge. If an Ultrium-6 data cartridge is not available, an Ultrium-5 cartridge can be substituted. Performing the test Use a blank data cartridge to perform the test. During the test, the tape is overwritten with a test pattern and all data on the tape is destroyed. To perform the test, complete the following steps:Enter diagnostic mode by completing the following substeps:Verify that a tape cartridge is not loaded in the drive. To unload a cartridge, press the eject button on the front of the drive.  Press and hold the eject button for 7 seconds, until all LEDs become active, and then release the button. The Ready LED continues to flash, the fault LED remains on, and a 1 is displayed in the single-character display (SCD). This combination indicates that the drive is waiting for a cartridge to be inserted. Start the self-test by inserting a blank, Ultrium 6 data cartridge into the drive.  If an Ultrium-6 data cartridge is not available, an Ultrium-5 cartridge can be substituted.  A cartridge must be loaded within 15 seconds or the drive automatically reverts back to normal operation.  If necessary, return to  to reenter into diagnostic mode. The test takes about 4 minutes. Use a cartridge that is not write-protected.  If a write protected cartridge is inserted while the drive is in diagnostic mode, the cartridge will be ejected. See . Self-testing can only be performed by using a write-compatible cartridge type (either Ultrium-6 or Ultrium-5), and with a cartridge that is not damaged. See . If a cleaning cartridge is inserted while the drive is in diagnostic mode, it will be ejected. While self-testing is in progress, the LEDs remain active and the following test steps are performed:  The hardware test runs for about 1 minute. During that time, a static test is performed on the electrical components of the drive, and proper operation of the cartridge load/unload mechanism is verified. The write/read test runs for about 3 minutes. Interpreting the resultsResult Description Test passed When self-testing completes successfully and no problems are detected, the cartridge is unloaded from the drive and all LEDs are off. Proper functioning of both the drive and tape cartridge have been verified. The drive is no longer in diagnostic mode, and it returns to normal operation.  If the yellow fault LED remains on and a C is displayed in the SCD, this combination indicates that self-testing has completed successfully but that cleaning is required.  Drive failure When a drive problem is detected, the cartridge remains loaded inside the drive, the yellow fault LED flashes, and a 5 is displayed in the SCD. Replace the tape drive. Media failure When a media problem is detected, the cartridge remains loaded inside the drive, the yellow fault LED remains on, and a 7 is displayed in the SCD. Repeat the self-test using another blank tape cartridge and discard the defective media.   Incorrect cartridge When an incorrect tape cartridge is used for the test, the cartridge is unloaded, the yellow fault LED remains on, and a P, 7, or J is displayed in the SCD. These characters are displayed for the following reasons:The cartridge is write-protected (P is displayed in the SCD.) The cartridge is damaged (7 is displayed in the SCD.) The cartridge is not write-compatible with the drive (J is displayed in the SCD.) Press the eject button to end the self-test and return the drive to normal operating mode.  Then, return to  and run the self-test again using a suitable cartridge. Returning to normal operationWhen self-testing has completed successfully, the tape cartridge is unloaded. The drive is no longer in diagnostic mode, and it returns to normal operation. When self-testing fails, the tape cartridge remains loaded inside the drive, and the drive remains in diagnostic mode. Press the eject button to unload tape cartridge and to return drive to normal operation. Parent topic:          
 36/72 GB Data72 4 mm internal tape drive (FC 6258) . Feature Description Description The 36/72 GB Data72 4 mm Internal Tape Drive is a 5.25-inch, half-high, LVD or SAS drive, which provides a high capacity for save/restore and achieve functions. This tape drive uses  4 mm data cartridges and is capable of compression, providing a capacity of up to 72 GB.    Characteristics:  FRU part number for FC 6258: 95P1988 FRU part number for FC 5907: 23R2530 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 63A0 Capacity: 36 GB native mode, 72 GB (typical) compression mode  Form Factor: 5.25-inch half high Media: DAT72, DDS4, and DDS3 media Technology: Helical scan, rotating head Operation: Streaming Data Transfer Rate: 3 MBps native mode, 6 MBps (typical) compression Interface for FC 6258: Low voltage differential Interface for FC 5907: Serial-Attached SCSI Compatibility: 12 GB mode (read/write), 20 GB (read/write), and 36 GB mode (read/write) Attributes provided: 4 mm tape capability  Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41 mm) half-high media bay and one SCSI internal LVD or SAS 16-bit address   Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation:  A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation Contact the place of purchase if an item is missing or damaged.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, the remainder of this section does not apply to your system. See your system documentation for information about the auto-docking feature. Media This tape drive uses 4mm data cartridges for saving and restoring system data.  It is designed to use only DDS (Digital Data Storage) data cartridges. The cartridges are identified by one of the following DDS symbols: The tape drive reads and writes data to tape cartridges that are DDS-3, DDS-4, or DAT 72 format.  This tape drive only supports DDS-3, DDS-4, and DAT 72 tape cartridges. If any other cartridge is inserted in the drive, it will be ejected. This tape drive has been designed to operate with DDS media that meet the following standards of the European Computer Manufacturers Association (ECMA):  ECMA-236 DDS-3 format ECMA-288 DDS-4 format Related information Your package contains the following items:   The tape drive Media kit containing:  1 cleaning cartridge 1 test tape Jumpers (located in a plastic bag) Specific hardware for attaching the drive to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your drive. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC 6258 or 5907) Clean the device whenever the Fault status light comes on or a system I/O error related to the device occurs. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty. The tape drive will turn on the cleaning indicator for the The tape drive exceeds internal preset error thresholds in the drive.  A cleaning cartridge that has been used the maximum number of times is inserted in the drive. The cleaning indicator is turned on to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. The tape drive exceeds the maximum recommended time between cleaning. The maximum recommended time between preventive-maintenance cleaning is 50 tape motion hours. Tape motion hours are defined as the time that the tape drive is moving tape. If the tape drive reaches 50 tape motion hours since the tape drives was last cleaned, the drive will turn on the cleaning required LED to  indicate the drive needs cleaning.  The tape drive will continue to operate but the tape drive should be cleaned at the next opportunity to insert a cleaning cartridge. To clean the tape drive, complete the following steps:   Some cleaning cartridges have white dots on the window side that are designed to be used to log the use of the cartridge. Each time the cartridge is used, mark one of the dots on the cartridge with a pen or marker. When all of the dots have been marked, discard the cleaning cartridge. After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive does the following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by moving the cleaning tape forward for approximately 30 seconds. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete. Indicates a successful cleaning operation by turning off the Fault status light (if the Fault light was on prior to the cleaning process.  If the cleaning operation completes but the Fault light remains on, repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the light still remains on, contact your authorized service provider. To determine how many times a cleaning cartridge can be used, check the information printed on the cartridge. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge, the tape drive automatically detects the error and ejects the cartridge. If the Fault status light was on prior to the cleaning process, it stays on; if the Fault light was off, the depleted cartridge causes the light to come on. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch (FC 6258)   The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape. Index number Description 1 When the switch is set to the right, data can be written to and read from the tape 2 When the switch is set to the left, data can only be read. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 6258) The following illustration is a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description 1 Tape drive door 2 Status lights 3 Ready (green) 4 Active (green) 5 Fault (amber) 6 Unload/Reset button The status lights and their ISO symbols are on the device as follows:  Ready  Activity  Fault   The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table.  Ready   Activity   Fault  Definition Flashing Off  Off  The power-on self-test (POST) is running or the test cartridge is running. Off or On Off or Flashing On The tape drive requires cleaning. See . If the Ready light is on, a tape cartridge is in the drive. If the light is off, a cartridge is not in the drive. If the Activity light flashes, a tape cartridge is in the drive and tape movement is occurring. If the light is off, no tape movement is occurring. Off  Off  Off or On One of the following conditions exists:  The power is off (Fault light is off). The POST completed successfully, but no tape cartridge has been inserted. If the Fault light is on, cleaning is required. See . On  Off or Flashing Off or On A data cartridge has been inserted. The device is ready to receive commands from the system (whether the Fault light is on or off). If the Fault light is on, cleaning is required. See . If the Activity light flashes, a tape cartridge is in the drive and tape movement is occurring. If the light is off, no tape movement is occurring.   On Flashing Off or On The tape is in motion, and the device is running an operation or is cleaning. Off  Off  Flashing  The device detected an internal fault that requires corrective action. Reset the error by turning the power off to the device, then turning it back on, or by holding down the Unload/Reset button for 8 seconds. If the Fault light still flashes after the reset, contact your service provider.  The device needs cleaning when the tape drive turns on the Fault status light (solid amber). The light turns on when the device exceeds a preset operating limit. The recommended preventive-maintenance cleaning frequency is approximately 50 tape motion hours. Tape motion hours are defined as the time that the tape drive is moving tape. When the Fault light turns on (solid amber), the device causes AIX® to log an information error (TAPE_ERR6) in the AIX log, indicating that the tape drive needs to be cleaned. Use only quality media and cleaning cartridges. The device is designed to operate in typical office environments. Dirty environments or other poor environments might damage the tape drive. It is the customer's responsibility to provide the proper operating environment. When the tape drive indicates that the drive needs to be cleaned, it is the customer's responsibility to clean the tape drive with the recommended cleaning cartridge. If a tape cartridge that is not DDS-3, DDS-4, or DAT72 format is used, that cartridge will be immediately ejected as an incorrect cartridge type.   Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 6258) Available tape cartridgesPart Number Type of Cartridge Native (uncompressed) Capacity 18P7912 DAT 72 Data Cartridge 36 GB 59H4456 4-mm Test Cartridge -- 21F8763 4-mm Cleaning Cartridge -- 59H3465 Data Cartridge  DDS3 12 GB 59H4458  Data Cartridge  DDS4 20 GB Most bulk eraser devices do not have the capability to erase the 4mm data cartridge. To correctly erase a 4mm data cartridge with a bulk eraser device, the erasure coercivity rating must be a minimum of 3900 Oersted. Parent topic:          
 80/160 GB DAT160 SAS tape drive (FC 5619) For FC 5619, one of the following feature codes must be ordered to internally attach the tape drive:FC 3655 SAS cable group (logic and power) for HH SAS tape in 3.5" DASD backplane. The 3.5" DASD, uses the short cable with part number: 42R5814 (optional 42R5815) FC 3656 SAS cable group (logic and power) for HH SAS tape in SFF DASD backplane. The 2.5" DASD, uses a longer cable with part number: 46K5450 (replaces 42R5815) Features Description Description The  is a 5.25-inch, half-high, SAS drive, which provides a high capacity for save/restore and achieve functions. To see an illustration of this drive, see . This tape drive uses  DAT160, 4 mm data cartridges and is compression capable, providing a capacity of up to 160 GB with 2:1 compression ratio.    Characteristics:  FRU part number: 23R9723 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 63A0 Media part numbers: see  Capacity: 80 GB native mode, 160 GB (typical) compression mode Form factor: 5.25-inch half high Media: DAT160, DAT72, and DDS4 media Technology: helical scan, rotating head Operation: streaming Data transfer rate: 6 MBps native mode, 12 MBps (typical) compression Interface: integrated, internal SAS Compatibility: DDS4 (read/write), DAT72 (read/write), and DAT160 (read/write) Attributes provided: 4 mm tape capability, test cartridge, cleaning cartridge, and a data cartridge Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41 mm) half-high media bay and one integrated, internal SAS Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation: A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation Contact the place of purchase if an item is missing or damaged.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, see your system documentation for information about the auto-docking feature. Media This tape drive uses 4 mm data cartridges for saving and restoring system data.  It is designed to use only DDS (Digital Data Storage) data cartridges. The cartridges are identified by one of the following DDS symbols: The tape drive reads and writes data to tape cartridges that are in the DDS4, DAT72, or DAT160 format. Related information Your package contains the following items:   The tape drive Media kit containing:  One cleaning cartridge One test tape Specific hardware for attaching the drive to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your drive, or as follows:Drive slide assembly 2 rails 4 Screws (Flat blade) Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 5619) Available tape cartridges part number Type of cartridge 23R5635 (cartridge feature code 5689) DAT160 80 GB Data Cartridge  23R5636 4 mm Test Cartridge 23R5638 4 mm Cleaning Cartridge (Only use the DAT160 cleaning cartridge on the DAT160 tape drive) Most bulk eraser devices do not have the capability to erase the 4 mm data cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC 5619) Clean the device whenever the Fault status light comes on or a system I/O error related to the device occurs. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty. The cleaning cartridge for this drive is P/N 23R5638. The cartridge is physically larger than previous cleaning cartridges and it is the only cleaning cartridge that can be used in this drive.  The older, narrower cleaning cartridges do not work in the 5619 tape drive and are ejected from the drive without cleaning the drive. The tape drive will turn on the cleaning indicator for the The tape drive exceeds internal preset error thresholds in the drive.  A cleaning cartridge that has been used the maximum number of times is inserted in the drive. The cleaning indicator is turned on to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. The tape drive exceeds the maximum recommended time between cleaning. The maximum recommended time between preventive-maintenance cleaning is 50 tape motion hours. Tape motion hours are defined as the time that the tape drive is moving tape. If the tape drive reaches 50 tape motion hours since the tape drives was last cleaned, the drive will turn on the cleaning required LED to  indicate the drive needs cleaning.  The tape drive will continue to operate but the tape drive should be cleaned at the next opportunity to insert a cleaning cartridge.  Operating the tape drive in a low-humidity environment causes the drive to request cleaning more often than in normal humidity environment.  In extreme low-humidity conditions of less than 15% relative humidity, the tape drive might request cleaning every 10 tape motion hours or even more frequently. For this reason, it is best not to use the tape drive in extremely low-humidity environments.  To clean the tape drive, complete the following steps:   After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive does the following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by moving the cleaning tape forward for approximately 30 seconds. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete. Indicates a successful cleaning operation by turning off the Cleaning status light (if the Cleaning light was on prior to the cleaning process. Otherwise, the Cleaning light remains solid to indicate that the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. Obtain a new cleaning cartridge and repeat the process.) If the cleaning operation completes but the Cleaning light remains on, repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the light still remain on, contact your authorized service representative. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge, the drive automatically detects the error and ejects the cartridge. If the Cleaning status light was on prior to the cleaning process, it stays on; if the Cleaning light was off, the depleted cartridge causes the light to come on. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch (FC 5619)   The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape. Index number Description When the switch is set to the right, data can be written to and read from the tape. When the switch is set to the left, data can only be read. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 5619) The following illustration is a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description Cleaning LED (amber) Media fault LED (amber) Drive fault LED (amber) Ready/Activity LED (green) Unload/Reset button The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table. Activity Cleaning (amber) Media fault (amber) Drive fault (amber) Ready/Activity (green) Power on LED test (2.0 seconds) On On On On Power on self-test (POST) activity Off Off Off Flashing  POST failed Off Off Flashing  Off POST passed On1 or off Off Off Off Data cartridge loading On1 or off Off Off Flashing  Data cartridge loaded, no activity On1 or off On2 or off Flashing 3 or off On Data cartridge loaded, activity On1 or off On2 or off Flashing 3 or off Flashing Data cartridge unloading On1 or off On2 or off Flashing 3 or off Flashing Data cartridge ejected On1 or off On or off Flashing 3 or off Off Cleaning cartridge loaded, activity On Off Flashing 3 or off Flashing Cleaning succeeded, cleaning cartridge ejected Off Off Flashing 3 or off Off Cleaning failed, cleaning cartridge ejected On1 On Flashing 3 or off Off Unrecoverable drive failure4 On1 or off On or off Flashing Flashing Unrecoverable media failure 4 On1 On Off Flashing, on, or off Firmware download: download and reprogram Flashing Off Off Flashing Firmware download: possible unload See Data cartridge unloading Firmware download: reset in 1 second On On On On Firmware download: self-test See Power on self-test activity, and then see either POST passed or POST failed. Firmware download reprogram failure Off Off Flashing Off SCSI diagnostics test in progress See Data cartridge loaded, activity SCSI diagnostics test passed See Data cartridge loaded, no activity SCSI diagnostics test failed, tape ejected On On On  Flashing After data cartridge ejects, see Data cartridge ejected. Tape diagnostics test in progress See Data cartridge loading and then: Flashing Off Off Flashing Tape diagnostics test passed, tape ejected Off Off Off Flashing After data cartridge ejects, see Data cartridge ejected. Tape diagnostics test failed, tape ejected On On On Flashing After data cartridge ejects, see Data cartridge ejected. 1 A solid amber Cleaning LED indicates that the drive needs cleaning. The drive will continue to function but needs cleaning as soon as possible. Do not ignore the indicator by cycling the power to turn it off. 2	The media has reached the end of  its useful life and should be replaced. Any data should be copied to a new cartridge as soon as possible. 3 Flashing in this state indicates a problem with write/read performance.  4 An unrecoverable drive failure is an error condition that results in the drive not being able to function unless initiator, operator, or service intervention is applied. An unrecoverable drive failure is usually the result of a hardware error condition. One of the following actions is needed to clear the flashing fault LED:  	Hard SCSI reset Cartridge emergency eject Power cycle Retry firmware download An unrecoverable media failure is usually the result of a defective cartridge, media, or cartridge state, and will require the drive to eject the cartridge (if possible) to clear the On LED.  Parent topic:          
 160/320 GB internal tape drive VXA-320 (FC 6279) Features Description Description The 160/320 GB Internal Tape Drive with VXA Technology is a 5.25-inch, half-high, Ultra2 LVD 16-bit tape drive, which provides a high capacity for save/restore and achieve functions. This tape drive uses VXA tape data cartridges and is capable of compression, providing a capacity of up to 320 GB.   Characteristics: FRU part number: 95P1976 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 63A0 Capacity: 160 GB native mode, 320 GB (typical) compression mode  Form Factor: 5.25-inch half high  Media: uses VXA tape data cartridges  Technology: Helical scan, rotating head  Operation: Streaming  Data Transfer Rate: 12 MBps native mode, 24 MBps (typical) compression  Interface: SCSI-2 (LVD/SE) asynchronous/synchronous  Compatibility: 160 GB mode (Read/Write), 320 GB compression (Read/Write)  Attributes provided: One 160/320 GB internal tape drive  Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41 mm) half-high media bay and one SCSI-2 internal 16-bit address  Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation:  A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation  If an item is missing or damaged, contact the place of purchase.  Related information Check that your package contains the following items:   The device Media kit containing:  1 cleaning cartridge 1 test tape Jumpers (located in a plastic bag) Specific hardware for attaching the device to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your device Use the information in this topic to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC 6120 and 6279) Clean the device whenever the Fault status light comes on or a system I/O error related to the device occurs. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty. The tape drive will turn on the cleaning indication for several reasons: The tape drive exceeds internal preset error thresholds in the drive.  A cleaning cartridge that has been used the maximum number of times is inserted in the drive. The cleaning indicator   is turned on to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable.  The tape drive exceeds the maximum recommended time between cleaning.    The maximum recommended time between preventive-maintenance cleaning is 75 tape motion hours. Tape motion hours are defined as the time that the tape drive is moving tape. If the tape drive reaches 75 tape motion hours since the tape drives  was last cleaned the drive will turn on the cleaning required LED to  indicate the drive needs cleaning.  The tape drive will continue to operate but it is recommended the tape drive be cleaned at the next opportunity to insert a cleaning cartridge. To clean the tape drive, complete the following steps:   Some cleaning cartridges have white dots on the window side that are designed to be used to log the use of the cartridge. Each time the cartridge is used, mark one of the dots on the cartridge with a pen or marker. When all of the dots have been marked, discard the cleaning cartridge. After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive does the  following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by moving the cleaning tape forward for approximately 30 seconds. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete. Indicates a successful cleaning operation by turning off the Cleaning status light (if the Cleaning light was on prior to the cleaning process. Otherwise, the Cleaning light remains solid to indicate that the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. Obtain a new cleaning cartridge and repeat the process.) If the cleaning operation completes but the Cleaning light remains on, repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the light still remain on, contact your authorized service representative. To determine how many times a cleaning cartridge may be used, check the information printed on the cartridge. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge, the drive automatically detects the error and ejects the cartridge. If the Cleaning status light was on prior to the cleaning process, it stays on; if the Cleaning light was off, the depleted cartridge causes the light to come on. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch (FC 6279)   The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape. Index number Description 1 When the switch is set to the left, data can be written to and read from the tape. 2 When the switch is set to the right, data can only be read. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 6279) The following is a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description 1 Ready (green) 2 Active (green) 3 Cleaning (amber)  4 Fault (amber) 5 Eject button The status lights and their ISO symbols are on the device as follows:  Ready  (green) Activity  (green) Cleaning  (amber) Fault  (amber)  The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table. Operation Ready  Activity Cleaning Fault Power-on self-test1 Flashing Off Off Off Power On LED Test On for 2.0 seconds On for 2.0 seconds On for 2.0 seconds On for 2.0 seconds No tape loaded Off Off On2/Off Off Cartridge loaded, no activity On Off On2/Off Off Data or Cleaning Cartridge loaded, activity On Flashing On2/Off Off Cleaning Cartridge loaded, cleaning failed2 Off Off On2 Off Cartridge loading or unloading2 Off Flashing On2/Off Off Unrecoverable drive failure3 On/Off Off On2/Off Flashing3 Firmware Download Flashing Off On2/Off Off Firmware Update Flashing Flashing On2/Off Off Microcode Download failure4 Off Off On2/Off Flashing3 Over Temperature5 Off Off On2/Off On  If the drive completes the power-on self-test (POST) within the 2.0 second Power On LED Test time, the POST indicator sequence is eliminated. A solid amber LED indicates the drive needs cleaning. The drive will continue to function, but, needs cleaning as soon as possible. A power cycle does not turn off this indicator. The Fault LED will flash to indicate an unrecoverable error. An unrecoverable error is an error condition that results in the drive not being able to function unless initiator, operator, or service intervention is applied. An unrecoverable drive failure is usually the result of a hardware error condition. One of the following actions will be needed to clear the flashing Fault LED:Hard SCSI Reset Cartridge Eject Power Cycle Retry microcode download An unrecoverable cartridge (media) failure is usually the result of a defective cartridge, media, or cartridge state and will require the drive to eject the cartridge (if possible) to clear the flashing LED. The firmware download failed and the drive is not functional. The drive boot code is in control and the microcode download should be retried. The drive can be identified using the Inquiry command and is bootable while in this state. The Fault LED will be on solid to indicate an over temperature condition.   Parent topic:          
 Performing the internal self-test (FC 6120 or 6279) Use the information in this topic to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. PrerequisitesIn order to perform the test, you need the following items:One VXA-2 tape drive with firmware code V2123 or higher, or one VXA-320 tape drive with firmware V3209 or higher One VXA cleaning cartridge X style One blank VXA X23 data cartridge Performing the testFollow these steps to perform the internal self-test: Use a blank tape to perform the test. During the test, the tape is overwritten with a test pattern and all data on the tape is destroyed. Clean the tape drive. Press the blue eject button for 7 seconds. When the Ready LED blinks rapidly, insert the blank, X23 data cartridge. The tape drive performs the internal self-test. The test can take up to 15 minutes. After successful completion, the media is ejected. Interpreting the resultsThe following table shows how to interpret the results of the internal self-test using the status lights. To see a front-view illustration of the tape drive and status lights, see one of the following illustrations.VXA-320 tape drive:  VXA-2 tape drive:  Internal self-test operation Ready  Activity Cleaning Fault Media status Initiated Flashing rapidly Off Off Off Unloaded Running Flashing rapidly Flashing Off Off Loaded Passed Off Off Off Off Unloaded Passed, cleaning needed Off Off On Off Unloaded Media failure1 Off Off Flashing Off Loaded Media write-protected2 Off Flashing Flashing Off Unloaded Internal self-test media not compatible1 Off Flashing Flashing Off Unloaded Drive failure Off Off Off Flashing Loaded 1 Repeat the internal self-test with a different, blank X23 data cartridge.2 Repeat the internal self-test with a write-enabled, blank X23 data cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 6279) Compatible tape cartridgesTypes of tape cartridges are supported by this tape drive:   cartridges are the newer version of the VXA cartridge  cartridges are the original VXA cartridge The  and  cartridges have similar shells and come in a variety of tape lengths. Both cartridges use Advanced Metal Evaporated (AME) media  and offer the similar read/write speeds and capacities. Available tape cartridgesPart Number   Description   Type  Other information 24R2137	  230m  80/160GB X23 Data Cartridge   Teal Accent 24R2136	  124 m  40/80GB X10 Data Cartridge   Teal Accent 24R2134	  20/40GB X6 Data Cartridge     Teal Accent 24R2135	  62m  20/40GB  X6 Test Cartridge     Teal Accent 24R2138	   X Cleaning Cartridge VXA 20 usage  Teal Accent Part Number   Description   Type  Other information  19P4876   230m  80/160GB V23  Data Cartridge  Purple accent Most bulk eraser devices do not have the capability to erase the data cartridge. To properly erase a VXA data cartridge with a bulk eraser device, the erasure field strength must be a minimum of 4000 gauss. Parent topic:          
 Performing the internal self-test (FC 5746) Use the information in this section to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. This procedure is designed to allow you to quickly perform a complete set of diagnostic tests on your LTO-4 tape drive, without impacting server operation.  This 4-minute test can also be used to verify good performance of individual LTO tape cartridges. For an illustration of the tape drive and the LED status lights that are referred to in this procedure, see  PrerequisitesIn order to perform the test you need a blank LTO-4 (Ultrium 4) data cartridge. If an Ultrium-4 data cartridge is not available, an Ultrium-3 cartridge can be substituted. Performing the testFollow these steps to perform the test: Use a blank data cartridge to perform the test. During the test, the tape will be overwritten with a test pattern and all data on the tape will be destroyed. Enter diagnostic mode by doing the following steps:Verify that a tape cartridge is not loaded in the drive. To unload a cartridge, press the eject button on the front of the drive.  Press and hold the eject button for 7 seconds, until all LEDs become active, and then release the button. The Ready LED will continue flashing, the Fault LED will remain on, and a 1 is displayed in the Single-character display (SCD). This combination indicates that the drive is waiting for a cartridge to be inserted. Start the self-test by inserting a blank, Ultrium 4 data cartridge into the drive.  If an Ultrium-4 data cartridge is not available, an Ultrium-3 cartridge can be substituted.   A cartridge must be loaded within 15 seconds or the drive will automatically revert back to normal operation.  If necessary, return to step 1 to reenter diagnostic mode. The test takes about 4 minutes. Use a cartridge that is not write-protected.  If a write-protected cartridge is inserted while the drive is in diagnostic mode, the cartridge will be ejected. See . Self-testing can only be performed using a write-compatible (either Ultrium-4 or Ultrium-3) cartridge type, and with a cartridge that is not damaged. See . If a cleaning cartridge is inserted while the drive is in diagnostic mode, it will be ejected. While self-testing is in progress, the LEDs will remain active and the following test steps are performed:  The hardware test runs for about one minute. During that time, a static test is performed on the electrical components of the drive, and proper operation of the cartridge load/unload mechanism is verified.   The write/read test runs for about three minutes.  Interpreting the resultsResult Description Test passed When self-testing has completed successfully and no problems were detected, the cartridge is unloaded from the drive and all LEDs are off.  Proper function of both the drive and tape cartridge have been verified. The drive is no longer in diagnostic mode, and has been returned to normal operation.  If the yellow Fault LED remains on and a C is displayed in the SCD, this combination indicates that self-testing has completed successfully but that cleaning is required.  Drive failure When a drive problem is detected, the cartridge remains loaded inside the drive, the yellow Fault LED flashes, and a 5 is displayed in the SCD.  Replace the tape drive. Media failure When a media problem is detected, the cartridge remains loaded inside the drive, the yellow Fault LED remains on, and a 7 is displayed in the SCD. Repeat the self-test using another blank tape cartridge and discard the defective media.   Incorrect cartridge When an incorrect tape cartridge is used for the test, the cartridge is unloaded, the yellow Fault LED remains on, and a P, 7, or J is displayed in the SCD.  This can happen if the cartridge is:Write-protected (P is displayed in the SCD.) Damaged (7 is displayed in the SCD.) Not write-compatible with the drive (J is displayed in the SCD.) Press the eject button to end the self-test and return the drive to normal operating mode.  Then return to step 1 and run the self-test again using a suitable cartridge. Returning to normal operationWhen self-testing has completed successfully, the tape cartridge is unloaded. The drive is no longer in diagnostic mode and returns to normal operation. When self-testing fails, the tape cartridge remains loaded inside the drive, and the drive remains in diagnostic mode. Press the eject button to unload tape cartridge and return drive to normal operation. Parent topic:          
 200/400 GB Half High Ultrium 2 tape drive (FC 5755) The LTO half-high tape drive is a SCSI device that can be used for backing up, restoring and archiving data. These files can include multimedia, imaging, transaction processing, large databases, and other storage-intensive applications. Each tape cartridge can store up to 200 GB of data (uncompressed), or up to 400 GB of data (compressed), assuming a 2 to 1 compression ratio. The actual capacity varies depending on the application, the type of data, and the tape cartridge. 200 GB is typical and 400 GB is possible when the Data Compression setting is activated. The default setting of Data Compression is controlled by the host system. The user and the application software can control the activation or deactivation of the data compression setting. The drive can optimally achieve a 2:1 compression ratio. The LTO half-high tape drive FRU part number is 23R3248 The custom card identification number (CCIN): 63A0 The LTO half-high tape drive features: A sustained native data transfer rate of up to 24 MB per second, 48 MB per second at 2:1 compression Downward read and write compatibility with earlier LTO-type data cartridges. Uses the self-configuring SCSI device driver native to the host operating system. Can be used as an bootable device, depending on the host system configuration. 5.25-inch half-high form factor Streaming operation Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41 mm) half-high media bay and one SCSI-2 internal 16-bit address    Use the information in this section to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC 5755) Clean the device whenever the Fault status light comes on or a system I/O error related to the device occurs. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty. The tape drive will turn on the cleaning indication for several reasons: - The tape drive exceeds internal preset error thresholds in the drive.  - A cleaning cartridge that has been used the maximum number of times is inserted in the drive. The cleaning indicator is turned on to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable.  The tape drive exceeds the maximum recommended time between cleaning.   The maximum recommended time between preventive-maintenance cleaning is 100 tape motion hours. Tape motion hours are defined as the time that the tape drive is moving tape.  If the tape drive reaches 100 tape motion hours since the tape drive was last cleaned, the drive will turn on the cleaning required LED to indicate the drive needs cleaning.  The tape drive will continue to operate but it is recommended the tape drive be cleaned at the next opportunity to insert a cleaning cartridge. To clean the tape drive, complete the following steps:   After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive does the following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by moving the cleaning tape forward for approximately 30 seconds. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete. Indicates a successful cleaning operation by turning off the Cleaning status light (if the Cleaning light was on prior to the cleaning process. Otherwise, the Cleaning light remains solid to indicate that the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable. Obtain a new cleaning cartridge and repeat the process.) If the cleaning operation completes but the Cleaning light remains on, repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the light still remain on, contact your authorized service representative. To determine how many times a cleaning cartridge may be used, check the information printed on the cartridge. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge, the drive automatically detects the error and ejects the cartridge. If the Cleaning status light was on prior to the cleaning process, it stays on; if the Cleaning light was off, the depleted cartridge causes the light to come on. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch (FC 5755)     The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape. Before loading cartridges into magazines, set the write-protect switch of each cartridge to enable or disable data recording. When the switch is set to the left, data can be written to the tape. When the switch is set to the right, data cannot be written to the tape. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 5755) The following illustration shows a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description Eject button Ready (green) Active (green) Cleaning (amber) Fault (amber) The status lights and their ISO symbols are on the device as follows:  Ready  (green) Activity  (green) Cleaning  (amber) Fault  (amber)  The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table. Operation Ready  Activity Cleaning Fault Power-On LED Test1 On for 2.0 seconds On for 2.0 seconds On for 2.0 seconds On for 2.0 seconds Power-On Self-Test (POST) is in progress2 Flashing Off Off Off A cartridge is not loaded Off Off On3/Off Off Cartridge loaded, no activity On Off On3/Off Off Data cartridge loaded, activity On Flashing On3/Off Off Cleaning cartridge loaded, activity On Flashing On Off Cleaning cartridge loaded, cleaning failed Off Off On3 4 Off Cartridge is loading or unloading Off Flashing On3/Off Off Unrecoverable drive failure On/Off Off On3/Off Flashing5 Firmware download is in progress Flashing Off On3/Off Off Firmware update is in progress Flashing Flashing On3/Off Off Firmware download failure6 Off Off On3/Off Flashing5 Maximum operating temperature exceeded7 Off Off On3/Off On Diagnostics test is in-progress Flashing Off or Flashing On3 / Off Off Media failure8 Off Off Flashing Off Incorrect media inserted in drive8 Off Both LEDs Flashing Together  Off 1 All 4 LEDs will be on solid for 2 seconds.  2 If the drive completes Power-On Self-Test (POST) within 2 seconds, no POST in progress indication is required. 3 A solid amber Clean LED indicates that the drive needs cleaning. In most cases the drive will continue to function, but it should be cleaned as soon as possible. 4 If the cleaning function completes and the solid amber Clean LED remains lit, the cleaning function was not successful. The cleaning cartridge may be depleted. Obtain a new LTO cleaning cartridge and use it to perform the cleaning function again. 5 The Fault LED will flash to indicate an unrecoverable error. An unrecoverable error is an error condition that results in the drive not being able to function unless initiator, operator, or service intervention is applied. An unrecoverable drive failure is usually the result of a hardware error condition. One of the following actions will be needed to clear the flashing Fault LED:Hard SCSI reset Cartridge eject Power cycle Retry microcode download An unrecoverable cartridge (media) failure is usually the result of a defective cartridge, media, or cartridge state and will require the drive to eject the cartridge (if possible) to clear the flashing LED. 6 The firmware download failed and the drive is not functional. The drive boot code is in control and the firmware download must be retried. 7 When the Fault LED is solid, it indicates an over temperature condition. The drive has exceeded its preset temperature limit, and if a tape is present in the drive it will be ejected. The 	Fault LED will remain solid until the drive temperature drops below a secondary temperature limit, and a data or cleaning cartridge is inserted.  8 While running drive diagnostics (using either SEND DIAG or the Self-Test Procedure), a media-related problem (hard media error or excessive soft error rate) will be reported as a media failure (with flashing Clean LED), and a write-protected, damaged, or incompatible cartridge will be reported as incorrect media (with Activity and Clean LEDs flashing simultaneously). Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 5755) Available tape cartridgesPart Number   Type of Cartridge  Length 08L9120 100/200GB LTO Ultrium 1 Data Cartridges 610 m (2000 ft )  08L9870  200/400GB LTO Ultrium 2 Data Cartridges 610 m (2000 ft )  24R0395  LTO Gen-2 Test Tape 610 m (2000 ft )  35L2086  Universal Cleaning Tape  – –  Do not attempt to bulk erase an LTO data cartridge for reuse. Bulk eraser devices cannot properly erase an LTO data cartridge and will permanently damage the cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Resetting the tape drive (FC 5755) Use this information to reset your half-high LTO-2 tape drive, without impacting server operation. Please allow up to 2 minutes for the entire tape drive process to complete.  Resetting a tape drive before the current backup operation has completed may cause loss of customer data. To reset the tape drive, follow these steps:  The Ready LED will continue flashing, indicating that the drive is waiting for a cartridge to be inserted.  The green Activity LED will begin flashing rapidly.  The Activity LED will continue flashing slowly while the reset function is in progress. When the reset function is complete, the tape cartridge will remain in the drive and the Ready LED will be lit. Allow up to 2 minutes for the reset function to complete. A solid amber Cleaning LED light indicates that the reset is complete, but the tape unit requires cleaning. Clean the tape unit by inserting a Universal LTO Cleaning Cartridge (part number 35L2086). After the reset function completes, the tape unit is restored to normal operating mode.  To remove the cartridge, press the eject button. Parent topic:          
 Performing the internal self-test (FC 5755) Use the information in this section to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. Use the following procedure to quickly perform a complete set of diagnostic tests on your LTO-2 tape drive, without affecting server operation.  This 5-1/2 minute test can also be used to verify good performance of individual LTO tape cartridges. For an illustration of the tape drive and the LED status lights that are referred to in this procedure, see . PrerequisitesIn order to perform the test you need the following items: Half High LTO-2 Tape Drive: Firmware code v0330 or higher  One LTO cleaning cartridge   One  test tape (P/N 24R0395) or one blank LTO-2 (Ultrium 2) data cartridge  Performing the testFollow these steps to perform the test: Use a test tape or blank (scratch) tape to perform the test. During the test, the tape will be overwritten with a test pattern and all data on the tape will be destroyed. Enter diagnostic mode by doing the following steps:Verify that a tape cartridge is not loaded in the drive. To unload a cartridge, press the eject button on the front of the drive.  Press and hold the eject button for 7 seconds, until the green Ready LED starts flashing rapidly, and then release the button. The Ready LED will continue flashing, indicating that the drive is waiting for a cartridge to be inserted. Start the self-test by inserting a test tape into the drive.  If a test tape is not available, you can substitute any blank LTO Ultrium-2 cartridge. A cartridge must be loaded within 15 seconds or the drive will automatically revert back to normal operation.  If necessary, return to step 1 to reenter diagnostic mode.   The test takes about 5-1/2 minutes. At any time, self-testing can be stopped by pressing the eject button.  After a current test operation is completed, the cartridge will be ejected and drive will return to normal operation.  Use a cartridge that is not write-protected.  If a write-protected cartridge is inserted while the drive is in diagnostic mode, the cartridge will be ejected.  Self-testing can only be performed using an undamaged, write-compatible, Ultrium-2 cartridge. If a write-protected or damaged cartridge is used, refer to Incorrect cartridge in .  If a cleaning cartridge is inserted while the drive is in diagnostic mode, cleaning will occur and the drive will then return to normal operating mode.  To reenter diagnostic mode, return to step 1.  While self-testing is in progress, the Ready LED continues to flash.  The following three test steps are performed:  The initialization sequence has an approximate duration of 20 seconds.  The Activity LED indicates tape movement.    The hardware test has an approximate duration of 2 minutes.  During that time, a static test is performed on the electrical components of the drive, and proper operation of the cartridge load/unload mechanism is verified.   The write/read test has an approximate duration of three minutes.  The Activity LED indicates tape movement.   Interpreting the resultsResult Description Test passed When self-testing has completed successfully and no problems were detected, the cartridge is unloaded from the drive and all LEDs are off.  Proper function of both the drive and tape cartridge have been verified. The drive is no longer in diagnostic mode, and has been returned to normal operation.  If the yellow Clean LED remains on, it indicates that self-testing has completed successfully but that cleaning is required. Clean the drive by inserting . Drive failure When a drive problem is detected, the cartridge will remain loaded inside the drive and the yellow Fault LED will flash.  Contact your service provider for assistance. Media failure When a media problem is detected, the cartridge will remain loaded inside the drive, and the yellow Clean LED will flash. Repeat self-test using another blank tape cartridge.   Incorrect cartridge When an incorrect tape cartridge is used for the test, the cartridge is unloaded and both the Activity and Clean LEDs will flash.  This can happen if the cartridge is:Write-protected Damaged  Not write-compatible with the drive  Press the eject button to end the self-test and return the drive to normal operating mode.  Then return to step 1 and run the self-test again using a suitable cartridge. Returning to normal operationWhen self-testing has completed successfully, the tape cartridge is unloaded. The drive is no longer in diagnostic mode and returns to normal operation. When self-testing fails, the tape cartridge remains loaded inside the drive, and the drive remains in diagnostic mode. Press the eject button to unload tape cartridge and return drive to normal operation. Parent topic:          
 80/160 GB internal tape drive VXA-2 (FC 6120) Feature Description Description The 80/160 GB Internal Tape Drive with VXA Technology is a 5.25-inch, half-high, Ultra2 LVD 16-bit tape drive, which provides a high capacity for save/restore and achieve functions. This tape drive uses VXA tape data cartridges and is capable of compression, providing a capacity of up to 160 GB.   Characteristics: FRU part number: 19P4898 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 63A0 Capacity: 80 GB native mode, 160 GB (typical) compression mode  Form Factor: 5.25-inch half high  Media: uses VXA tape data cartridges  Technology: Helical scan, rotating head  Operation: Streaming  Data Transfer Rate: 6 MBps native mode, 12 MBps (typical) compression  Interface: SCSI-2 (LVD/SE) asynchronous/synchronous  Compatibility: 80 GB mode (Read/Write), 160 GB compression (Read/Write)  Attributes provided: One 80/160 GB internal tape drive  Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41 mm) half-high media bay and one SCSI-2 internal 16-bit address  Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation:  A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation  If an item is missing or damaged, contact the place of purchase.  Related information Check that your package contains the following items:   The device Media kit containing:  1 data cartridge 1 cleaning cartridge 1 test tape Jumpers (located in a plastic bag) Specific hardware for attaching the device to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your device Use the information in this topic to perform an internal self-test on your tape drive. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch (FC 6120)   The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape. Index number Description 1 When the switch is set to the left, data can be written to and read from the tape. 2 When the switch is set to the right, data can only be read. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 6120) The following illustration is a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description 1 Ready (green) 2 Active (green) 3 Cleaning (amber)  4 Fault (amber) 5 Eject button The status lights and their ISO symbols are on the device as follows:  Ready  (green) Activity  (green) Cleaning  (amber) Fault  (amber)  The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table. Operation Ready  Activity Cleaning Fault Power-on self-test1 Flashing Off Off Off Power On LED Test On for 2.0 seconds On for 2.0 seconds On for 2.0 seconds On for 2.0 seconds No tape loaded Off Off On2/Off Off Cartridge loaded, no activity On Off On2/Off Off Data or Cleaning Cartridge loaded, activity On Flashing On2/Off Off Cleaning Cartridge loaded, cleaning failed2 Off Off On2 Off Cartridge loading or unloading2 Off Flashing On2/Off Off Unrecoverable drive failure3 On/Off Off On2/Off Flashing3 Firmware Download Flashing Off On2/Off Off Firmware Update Flashing Flashing On2/Off Off Microcode Download failure4 Off Off On2/Off Flashing3 Over Temperature5 Off Off On2/Off On  If the drive completes the power-on self-test (POST) within the 2.0 second Power On LED Test time, the POST indicator sequence is eliminated A solid amber LED indicates the drive needs cleaning. The drive will continue to function, but needs cleaning as soon as possible. A power cycle does not turn off this indicator. The Fault LED will flash to indicate an unrecoverable error. An unrecoverable error is an error condition that results in the drive not being able to function unless initiator, operator, or service intervention is applied. An unrecoverable drive failure is usually the result of a hardware error condition. One of the following actions will be needed to clear the flashing Fault LED:Hard SCSI reset Cartridge eject Power cycle Retry microcode download An unrecoverable cartridge (media) failure is usually the result of a defective cartridge, media, or cartridge state and will require the drive to eject the cartridge (if possible) to clear the flashing LED. The firmware download failed and the drive is not functional. The drive boot code is in control and the microcode download should be retried. The drive can be identified using the Inquiry command and is bootable while in this state. The Fault LED will be on solid to indicate an over-temperature condition.   Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 6120) Compatible tape cartridgesTwo types of tape cartridges are supported by this tape drive:   cartridges are the newest version of the VXA cartridge  cartridges are the original VXA cartridge The  and  cartridges have similar shells and come in a variety of tape lengths. Both cartridges utilize AME media  and offer the similar read/write speeds and capacities.  To use  cartridges, the tape drive must have a minimum microcode level of 2105. To display the microcode level of the tape drive in the AIX® operating system, do the following steps: Open an AIX command prompt. Type the  command, where  is the tape drive number, then press Enter. The output will contain the following line:         Device Specific.(Z1)........2105    In the previous example, 2105 represents the microcode level. If the command output contains a value of 2105 or higher, the tape drive supports the use of  cartridges. If the command output contains a value of 2104 or lower, update your microcode to 2105 or higher to use  cartridges in this tape drive.  cartridges are only supported in VXA-2 tape drives. A user can write an  cartridge in VXA-1 format on a VXA-2 tape drive, but it will only be readable on a VXA-2 drive. The VXA-2 drive supports use of V10 media   Available tape cartridgesPart Number   Description   Type  Other information 24R2137	  230m  80/160GB X23 Data Cartridge   Green accent 24R2136	  124 m  40/80GB X17 Data Cartridge   Green accent 24R2134	  20/40GB X6 Data Cartridge     Green accent 24R2135	  62m  20/40GB  X6 Test Cartridge     Green accent 24R2138	   X Cleaning Cartridge VXA 20 usage  Green accent Part Number   Description   Type  Other information  19P4876   230m  80/160GB V23  Data Cartridge  Purple accent 19P4877  124 m  40/80GB V17  Data Cartridge Red accent 19P4878   20/40GB V6 Data Cartridge Blue accent 19P4879   62m  20/40GB  V6 Test Cartridge Blue accent 19P4880   X Cleaning Cartridge VXA 20 usage Gray accent Parent topic:          
 60/150 GB 16-bit 8-mm internal tape drive (FC 6134) Feature Description Description The 60/150GB 16-bit 8-mm Internal Tape Drive consists of a 5.25-inch half-high, 16-bit tape drive. This drive provides a high capacity tape drive for save/restore and archiving functions. This tape drive uses  8-mm data cartridges and is capable of compression, providing a capacity of up to 150 GB. The 60/150 GB 16-bit 8-mm Internal Tape Drive, is limited to a maximum system ambient operating temperature of 31C (87.8F) at a maximum operating altitude of 2134m (7000 ft). Lower altitudes have higher maximum ambient operating temperatures. Characteristics: FRU part number: 19P0708 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 63A0 Capacity: 60 GB Native Mode, 150 GB (typical) Compression Mode  Form Factor: 5.25-inch Half-high  Media:  8-mm Data Cartridge with SmartClean Technology  Operation: Streaming  Data Transfer Rate: 12 MB/Sec. Native Mode, 30 MB/Sec. (typical) Compression M  Interface: SCSI-2 16-bit Low Voltage Differential (LVD) / Single-ended (SE) Asynchronous/Synchronous  Compatibility: Contact your authorized service provider Attributes provided: 60/150GB 16-bit 8-mm Internal Tape Drive  Attributes required: One 1.6-inch (41mm) half-high media bay and one SCSI-2 internal 16-bit address  Tools The following tools and documentation are needed to complete the installation:  A flat-blade screwdriver (if this device is not an auto-docking feature on your system) Your system unit documentation, including any service documentation Your operating system documentation If an item is missing or damaged, contact the place of purchase.  If you are installing the auto-docking version of this device on your system, the remainder of this information does not apply to your system. See your system documentation for information about the auto-docking feature. Related information Check that your package contains the following items:   The device Media kit containing:  1 data cartridge 1 cleaning cartridge 1 test tape Jumpers (located in a plastic bag) Specific hardware for attaching the device to your specific system, as detailed on the parts listing provided with your device Parent topic:          
 Cleaning the tape drive (FC 6134) Clean the device whenever the Fault status light comes on or a system I/O error related to the device occurs. Use only the recommended cleaning cartridge to clean the tape drive. Use of other than recommended cleaning cartridges can damage your drive and might void the warranty. The tape drive will turn on the cleaning indication for several reasons: The tape drive exceeds internal preset error thresholds in the drive.  A cleaning cartridge that has been used the maximum number of times is inserted in the drive. The cleaning indicator is turned on to indicate that the cleaning process was not done and the cleaning cartridge is no longer usable.  The tape drive exceeds the maximum recommended time between cleaning.    If SmartClean data cartridges are not used, clean the tape drive with a cleaning cartridge when the tape drive amber  LED (Disturbance LED) indicates the drive needs cleaning due to time of tape  movement or recording quality problems. The LCD will say "CLEAN SOON".  The maximum time between cleaning will be 30 tape motion hours.    The 6134 tape drive is optimized to use SmartClean media. Extended use of AME media that is not SmartClean media is not recommended. To clean the tape drive, complete the following steps:   Some cleaning cartridges have white dots on the window side that are designed to be used to log the use of the cartridge. Each time the cartridge is used, mark one of the dots on the cartridge with a pen or marker. When all of the dots have been marked, discard the cleaning cartridge. After the cleaning cartridge has been inserted, the remainder of the cleaning process is automatic. The tape drive does the  following actions: Loads the cleaning cartridge into the tape drive. Cleans the drive by moving the cleaning tape forward for approximately 30 seconds. Unloads the cleaning cartridge when the cleaning operation is complete. Indicates a successful cleaning operation by turning off the Fault status light (if the Fault light was on prior to the cleaning process.  If the cleaning operation completes but the Fault light remains on, repeat the cleaning procedure with a new cleaning cartridge. If the light still remains on, contact your authorized service provider. To determine how many times a cleaning cartridge can be used, check the information printed on the cartridge. If you attempt to use a depleted cleaning cartridge, the tape drive automatically detects the error and ejects the cartridge. If the Fault status light was on prior to the cleaning process, it stays on; if the Fault light was off, the depleted cartridge causes the light to come on. If a system error occurs, clean the drive and retry the operation. If the operation fails, replace the data cartridge, clean the drive again, then retry the operation. Parent topic:          
 Setting the write-protect switch (FC 6134) The position of the write-protect switch on the tape cartridge determines when you can write to the tape.When the switch is set to the left in the SAVE position , data cannot be written to or read from the tape (data is saved). When the switch is set to the right in the REC (Record) position , data can be written to and read from the tape. Parent topic:          
 Status lights (FC 6134) The following illustration is a front view of the tape drive:   Index number Description 1 Unload button  2 Status lights  3 Liquid crystal display (LCD) The status lights and their ISO symbols are on the device as follows:  Ready  (green) Activity  (green) Fault  (amber)  The combinations of the lights and their definitions are shown in the following table. Operation Ready  Activity Fault POST or Reset On On On Error or Failed POST Off Off Flash Ready (No Cartridge Loaded) Off Off   Ready (Cartridge Loaded) On Off   Normal Cartridge Motion On Flashing   High Speed Motion On Fast Flashing   Time to Clean Cartridge N/A N/A On Cleaning in Progress On Flashing On Parent topic:          
 Tape cartridges (FC 6134) Available tape cartridgesPart Number Type of Cartridge Length 35L1044 20 GB AME with SmartClean Data Cartridge 75 m (246 ft) 09L5323 40 GB AME with SmartClean Data Cartridge 150 m (492 ft) 18P6484 60 GB AME with SmartClean Data Cartridge 225 m (738 ft) 35L1409 Cleaning Cartridge   Parent topic:          
 Managing devices for the  or  Learn about managing media and communications devices. The topic contains reference information that information technology (IT) personnel and service representatives can use to learn about using and managing removable media devices and communications devices. You can also find specifications and installation notes for specific devices. The following listed features are electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) Class B features. See the EMC Class B Notices in the Hardware Notices section.80/160 GB Internal Tape Drive VXA-2 (FC 6120) 160/320 GB Internal Tape Drive VXA-320 (FC 6279) 60/150 GB 16-bit 8-mm Internal Tape Drive (FC 6134) 36/72 GB Data72 4 mm Internal Tape Drive (FC 6258 or 5907) 80/160 GB DAT160 SAS Tape Drive (FC 5619) 160/320 GB DAT320 SAS Tape Drive (FC 5661) SATA Slimline DVD-ROM Drive (FC 5743) SATA Slimline DVD-RAM Drive (FC 5762) SATA Slimline DVD-RAM Drive (FC 5771) External USB 1.44 MB Diskette Drive (FC 2591) 160/320 GB DAT320 USB Tape Drive (FC 5673) 80/160 GB DAT160 SAS Tape Drive (FC 1124) Internal RDX USB 2.0 Dock (1103) RDX USB 2.0 External Dock (1104) Internal RDX USB 3.0 Dock (EU03) RDX USB External Dock (EU04) RDX Removable Disk Drives (1106, 1107, EU01, EU08, and EU15) You can view and print a PDF of this information. Learn about using and managing removable media devices. Find specifications and installation notes for specific drives. Learn about using and managing removable media devices. Find specifications and installation notes for specific drives. Learn about the features of specific diskette drives. Find information about managing disk devices. Learn about using and managing removable disk drives. Find specifications and installation notes for specific drives. Learn about the LAN-Attached Remote Asynchronous Node (RAN) 16 (model 7036-P16). Related information:         
 Managing DVD drives Learn about using and managing removable media devices. Find specifications and installation notes for specific drives. Learn about the specifications of this DVD-ROM drive. Learn about the specifications of this DVD-RAM drive. Learn about the specifications of this DVD-RAM drive. Learn how to handle and store the DVD media. Under usual conditions, the tray automatically opens when you press the Load/Unload button. If it does not automatically open, you can use the emergency eject feature to open the tray manually. The DVD-RAM type II disc can be removed from its cartridge and played in a DVD-ROM or DVD-RAM drive that is compatible with the DVD-RAM type II disc. Parent topic:          
 SATA Slimline DVD-ROM Drive (FC 5743) Learn about the specifications of this DVD-ROM drive. The serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) Slimline DVD-ROM Drive is an internal tray loading DVD-ROM drive. It is a 12.7 mm slimline form factor DVD-ROM drive that is capable of multiple sessions. This drive also reads type II (removable from cartridge) DVD-RAM discs. System boot and installation functions are supported with CD-ROM, DVD-ROM, and DVD-RAM media. SpecificationsFRU part number: 44V4224 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 6337  model 004 Media: reads CD-ROM, CD-R, CD-RW, DVD-ROM, and DVD-RAM discs Interface: SATA Connector: Slimline SATA Form factor: 12.7 mm Slimline Loading tray: supports 12 cm and 8 cm discs  Operating positions: vertical or horizontal (8 cm discs require horizontal operation) Interface: uses standard and extended XA formats      DVD video: not supported AIX® 5.1 only reads CD-type formatted DVD media Requirements: 1 Slimline media bay Parent topic:          
 SATA Slimline DVD-RAM Drive (FC 5762) Learn about the specifications of this DVD-RAM drive. The serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) Slimline DVD-RAM Drive is an internal, low profile DVD-RAM drive that is capable of reading and writing 4.7 GB DVD-RAM discs, as well as reading a multitude of other optical media discs. This drive also reads type II (removable from cartridge) DVD-RAM discs. System boot and installation functions are supported with CD-ROM and DVD-RAM media. SpecificationsFRU part number: 44V4220 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 6331 model 004  Media: Reads CD-ROM, CD-R, CD-RW, DVD-ROM, and DVD-RAM discs Writes 4.7 GB DVD-RAM discs Interface: SATA Connector: Slimline SATA Connector: SATA Loading tray: supports 12 cm and 8 cm discs  Operating positions: vertical or horizontal (8 cm discs require horizontal operation) Form factor: 12.7 mm Slimline DVD video: not supported AIX® 5.1 only reads CD-type formatted DVD media Requirements: 1 Slimline media bay Parent topic:          
 SATA Slimline DVD-RAM Drive (FC 5771) Learn about the specifications of this DVD-RAM drive. The serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) Slimline DVD-RAM Drive is an internal, low profile DVD-RAM drive that is capable of reading and writing 4.7 GB DVD-RAM discs, as well as reading a multitude of other optical media discs. This drive also reads type II (removable from cartridge) DVD-RAM discs. System boot and installation functions are supported with CD-ROM and DVD-RAM media. SpecificationsFRU part number: 74Y7341 Custom card identification number (CCIN): 6331 model 004  Media: Reads CD-ROM, CD-R, CD-RW, DVD-ROM, and DVD-RAM discs Writes 4.7 GB DVD-RAM discs Interface: SATA Connector: Slimline SATA Connector: SATA Loading tray: supports 12 cm and 8 cm discs  Operating positions: vertical or horizontal (8 cm discs require horizontal operation) Form factor: 12.7 mm Slimline DVD video: not supported AIX® 5.1 only reads CD-type formatted DVD media Requirements: 1 Slimline media bay Parent topic:          
 Handling and storing the DVD media Learn how to handle and store the DVD media.  DVD media must be handled with care. Leaving the media exposed allows dirt particles to accumulate and to become a source of contamination. Handling the DVD media with care reduces errors and improves the performance. Restrictions on using DVD mediaCorrect ways to handle DVD media: Handle media by the outer edge or the center hole. Store media in jewel cases specified for DVDs. Return media to storage cases immediately after use to minimize the effects of environmental changes. Store media in a cool, dry environment in which the air is clean. Remove dirt, foreign materials, fingerprints, smudges, and liquids by wiping with a clean cotton fabric in a straight line from the center of the disc toward the outer edge. Check the media surface before recording. Incorrect ways to handle DVD media: Touch the surface of the media. Bend the media. Use adhesive labels on the media. Expose media to extreme heat or high humidity. Expose media to prolonged sunlight or other sources of ultraviolet light. Write or mark in the data area of the media. Clean by wiping in a circular direction going around the disc. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Opening a DVD tray manually Under usual conditions, the tray automatically opens when you press the Load/Unload button. If it does not automatically open, you can use the emergency eject feature to open the tray manually. Follow these steps to manually open the tray: Follow your operating system instructions for shutting down your system, then turn off the power to your system unit. Unplug the power cord from the wall outlet. Insert the straightened end of a paper clip into the emergency eject hole until you feel some resistance. Continue to push in the paper clip while you pull out the tray with your fingernail. Pull the tray completely open and remove the disc. It is usual for the tray to make a clicking sound while you are pulling it open. Parent topic:          
 DVD-RAM type II disc The DVD-RAM type II disc can be removed from its cartridge and played in a DVD-ROM or DVD-RAM drive that is compatible with the DVD-RAM type II disc.   Be careful when handling removed discs. Debris, dust particles, fingerprints, smears, or scratches can affect recording and playback of discs. Do not use solvents to clean disc surfaces. To clean a disc, use a soft, lint free cloth and gently wipe the disc surface outwards from the center hole to the outer edge. Do not rub, make circular motions or try to follow the circular lines in the disc. When labeling a disc, write only on the printed label side, using a soft felt-tip marker. Do not use a hard-tip pen to write on disc surface. Keep out of direct sunlight, high temperatures, and humidity. Do not attach labels to either side of the disc. Removing a disc from the cartridgeTo remove a disc from the cartridge, do the following steps:  Handle the disc only by its edges. Use the tip of a ballpoint pen to push the locking pin up and out of the disc cartridge.  Use the tip of a ballpoint pen to push down on the lock button while pulling the cartridge lid open.  With the cartridge lid open, slide the disc out of the cartridge.  Index number Description 1 Locking Pin 2 Lock Button 3 Cartridge Lid Returning a disc to the cartridgeTo return a disc to the cartridge, do the following steps:  Both the disc label and the cartridge label should be facing up. Handle the disc only by its edges. Slide the disc into the cartridge.  Close the cartridge lid. Make sure the lock button snaps into position.  Install the locking pin.  Parent topic:          
 Managing diskette drives Learn about the features of specific diskette drives. Parent topic:          
 External USB 1.44 MB diskette drive (FC 2591)  The following provides information about the external USB 1.44 MB diskette drive. Feature Description Installation and removal To install this external USB 1.44 MB diskette drive, complete the following steps:Unpack the device and ensure you have all the cables and parts. Connect the USB cables to an available USB port on the system unit. Wait for the system to recognize the new device (approximately 1-3 minutes). To remove this external USB 1.44 MB diskette drive, complete the following steps:Ensure you complete any processes running from or to the diskette drive. Eject any diskette you have in the device. Disconnect the device from the system unit. If you are installing this device on a system or partition running any other operating system, see the documentation for that operating system. Description The externally attached USB diskette drive provides storage capacity up to 1.44 MB on a high-density (2HD) diskette and 720 KB on a double-density diskette. Includes 350mm (13.7 in) captured cable with standard USB connector.   Limitations: Maximum 1 USB diskette per adapter Up to 1 Keyboard and Mouse also supported on the adapter with the diskette drive at the same time  No system boot capability  Not to be operated upside down or with eject button down  Characteristics: FRU part number: 033P3339 Capacity - 1.44 MB (2HD disk) or 720 KB (double-density disk)  Physical Dimensions: Width=103mm (4.05 in), Height=17.6mm (.69 in), Depth=141.8-mm (5.58 in)  Color: Black  Data Rate: 12 Mbits/sec  Maximum Power Consumption: 2.36 Watt (seek) Operates in all positions except those noted in the preceding limitations Attributes provided: External diskette drive  Attributes required: 1 available USB port  Parent topic:          
 Managing disk devices Find information about managing disk devices. To learn about managing disk devices for the  operating system, see the Disk management topic collection in the  Information Center.  To access the  Information Center Web site, go to  and select from the following options:If you select i 7.1, expand >  >  If you select i 6.1, expand >  >  If you select V5R4, expand >  >  The Disk management topic collection includes information about using device parity protection and using hot-spare device parity protection. To learn about managing disk devices for the AIX® operating system, see  and . To learn about managing disk devices for the Linux operating system, see . Parent topic:          
 Managing removable disk drives Learn about using and managing removable disk drives. Find specifications and installation notes for specific drives. Learn about the features of this drive. Learn about the features of this drive. Learn about the features of this drive. Parent topic:          
 RDX USB Internal Dock (1103, 1123, EU03, and EU23) and RDX Removable Disk Drives (1106, 1107, EU01, EU08 and EU15) Learn about the features of this drive. DescriptionThe feature code (FC) 1123 and FC EU23 information applies only to an  system. The FC 1103 and FC EU03 information applies only to an  system. The USB Removable Disk Drive consists of a docking station, which holds a removable disk drive. The docking station is available as an internal or external device.  The following illustrations show the internal drives. A Emergency eject hole B Cartridge indicator light C Eject button and power indicator light E Power connector F USB connector Feature codes and part numbersLearn about the feature codes (FCs) and part numbers for the USB Removable Disk Drive. FC 1103 uses an internal USB cable to connect to the internal USB media device connector on the system backplane of a system that supports this feature. The internal USB media device cable and power cable are included in the feature code.  FC 1103 provides the following parts: 46C5370 (FRU: 46C5380) - USB Internal docking station 46K7435 - Internal USB media device cable (12 inch) 46K7434 - Internal power cable (11 inch) with right angle power connector 44V3429 - Two drive slide assembly rails 1621187 - Four flat blade screws FC 1123 uses an internal USB cable to connect to the internal USB media device connector on the system backplane of a system that supports this feature. The internal USB media device cable and power cable are included in the feature code.  FC 1123 provides the following parts: 46C2425 (FRU: 46C2217) - Internal 3.5" RDX USB Dock 46K5031 - Internal USB media device cable (12 inch) 46K5032 - Internal power cable (11 inch) Requires FC 5263 DASD/Media Backplane - 3 SFF DASD/SATA DVD/HHTape. The FC 5263 is supported on the . A single mounting clip (74Y5182) is provided with the system and is not part of this FC 5263. FC EU03 uses an internal USB cable to connect to the internal USB media device connector on the system backplane of a system that supports this feature. The internal USB media device cable and power cable are included in the feature code.  FC EU03 provides the following parts: 46C2332 (FRU: 46C2346) - Internal RDX USB 3.0 Dock 46K7435 - Internal USB media device cable (12 inch) 46K7434 - Internal power cable (11 inch) with right angle power connector 44V3429 - Two drive slide assembly rails 1621187 - Four flat blade screws FC EU23 uses an internal USB cable to connect to the internal USB media device connector on the system backplane of a system that supports this feature. The internal USB media device cable and power cable are included in the feature code.  The FC EU23 is not supported on IBMi systems, because IBMi does not support the split backplane on the systems that support FC EU23. FC EU23 provides the following parts:46C2443 (FRU: 46C2444) - Internal 3.5" RDX USB 3.0 Dock 46K7435 - Internal USB media device cable (12 inch) 46K7434 - Internal power cable (11 inch) with right angle power connector Requires FC 5263 DASD/Media Backplane - 3 SFF DASD/SATA DVD/HHTape. The FC 5263 is supported on the . A single mounting clip (74Y5182) is provided with the system and is not part of this FC 5263. Removable disk drives Feature code Part number Description 1106 46C5375  160 GB Removable Disk Drive  1107 46C5379 500 GB Removable Disk Drive  EU01 46C2335 1 TB Removable Disk Drive EU08 46C5377 320 GB Removable Disk Drive  EU15 46C2831 1.5 TB Removable Disk Drive Purchasing additional removable disk drivesFor best results, use only the removable disk drives that are shown in . The removable disk drives are a supply item that can be ordered as a feature code. To order in the United States and Canada, call 1-888-IBM-MEDIA. To order drives in other locations, contact your local provider of IBM® storage products or see  (http://www.storage.ibm.com/media/). The removable disk drives are not a service item. IBM service representatives are not dispatched to service or replace the removable disk drives. Storing removable disk drivesStore removable disk drives in their protective containers, on a flat surface with the top side up. The storage area must be clean and dry, must have normal room temperature, and must be away from any magnetic fields. For best storage life, use the removable disk drives every six months. Supported USB adapters and cables The docking station only supports the USB cable that is provided as part of the feature code. The docking station does not support attachment by using USB hubs, add-on USB cables, or USB cable extenders.  The internal docking station can be connected to the internal USB media device connector on the system backplane of  processor-based systems.   When the internal USB media device port on the system backplane is used for the docking station, the port is disabled for any other use. This information does not apply to an  system. SpecificationsInterface USB 2.0 Mksysb Yes Bootable  Yes Physical form factor (internal docking station) 5.25 inch half high 3.5 inch half high for an  system (FC 1123) Environmental USB Removable Disk Drive Operating conditions Non-operating conditions Temperature 5⁰C to 55⁰C –40⁰C to 65⁰C  Relative humidity  8 - 90% noncondensing 5 - 95% noncondensing  Maximum wet bulb temperature  29.4⁰C noncondensing  40⁰C noncondensing  Maximum temperature gradient 20⁰C per hour 20⁰C per hour  Altitude –300 m to 3048 m (10,000 ft) –300 m to 12,192 m (40,000 ft) Supported operating systemsUSB Removable Disk Drive is supported on the following versions of operating systems:  AIX® 5L Version 5.3 with the 5300-11 Technology Level, or later IBM i 7.1 with the Technology Refresh PTF Group Level 5, or later AIX Version 6.1 with the 6100-04 Technology Level, or later Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 3 Update 7, or later SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 10, or later Using the USB Removable Disk Drive for backup and restore  If power is lost during a backup to the disk, the data can be compromised. Verify the data or rerun the backup.  Using the drive with AIX AIX names the drive usbmsx, for example, usbms1, and usbms2. AIX also can use the device as a raw device, for example, rusbms1 and rusbms2. AIX uses the removable disk drive differently depending on the program being used. The AIX  command builds a list of files to back up, creates a universal disk format (UDF) file system, and puts a boot image and the root volume group on the removable disk drive.  When the  process is complete the removable disk drive can be used to boot the system.  If you mount the removable disk drive, you can display and copy files to and from the UDF file system on the removable disk drive.  The AIX , , , , and  commands can write to the removable disk drive as a raw device or nonraw device. You might get improved performance by using the device as a raw device.  See the AIX documentation for additional information. Using the drive with IBM iIBM i configures the drive as a removable media drive with a name in the format RMSxx, for example, RMS01. The drive and cartridge are used with optical commands and utilities (for example, WRKOPTVOL and INZOPT), and reports media in the QOPT file system. See the IBM i documentation for information about using IBM i copy and backup commands. Using the drive with LinuxLinux configures the drive as a disk drive with a name in the format sdx, for example, sda, sdb, and sdc. See the Linux documentation for information about using Linux copy and backup commands. Setting the write-protect switchThe removable disk drives have a red, write-protect tab that is located on the back of the drive. To write-protect a drive, slide the write-protect tab toward the lock symbol. To disengage write protection, slide the tab to the unlock symbol.  Using the emergency eject functionTo eject a removable disk drive, press the eject button. If a drive is stuck, complete the following steps: If you using the internal docking station, power off the system. If you are using the external docking station, unplug the power cable from the device.  Insert a large straightened paper clip (or similar object) into the emergency eject hole. Do not insert the object in the hole at an angle. Keep the object straight and apply some force to eject the drive. When the drive has been ejected by the docking station, grasp the exposed sides of the drive and pull the drive straight out.  Restart your system to reset the docking station. If you are using the external docking station, reconnect the power cable for the docking station and then restart the system. Status lightsyeaLearn about the power indicator and drive indicator status lights on the USB Removable Disk Drive. The eject button is illuminated by a power indicator light. The following table describes the operation of the power indicator.  Indicator status Meaning Description Off No power Docking station does not have power. Steady green Ready  Power is on and the docking station is working correctly. Flashing green Ejecting  Cartridge is ejecting. Flashing amber Fault   Docking station has detected a fault condition with the docking station. The disk drive has an indicator light that displays the status of the drive. The following table describes the operation of the drive indicator. Indicator status Meaning Description Off Not ready  Drive is not inserted correctly or the docking station has no power. Steady green Ready   Drive is ready. Flashing green Activity  Drive is reading, writing, or seeking. Flashing amber  Fault  Docking station has detected a fault condition with the cartridge. Parent topic:          
 RDX USB External Dock (1104 and EU04) and RDX Removable Disk Drives (1106, 1107, EU01, EU08, and EU15) Learn about the features of this drive. DescriptionThe USB removable disk drive consists of a docking station, which holds a removable disk drive. The docking station is available as an external device.  The following illustrations show the external drives. D Write-protect switch E Power connector F USB connector Feature codes and part numbersLearn about the feature codes (FCs) and part numbers for the USB Removable Disk Drive. FC 1104 uses an external USB cable to connect to an external USB port. The 1104 feature code includes a USB cable, an external power supply, and a power cord as part of the feature code.  FC 1104 provides the following parts:46C5381 - USB external docking station 44E8889 - External USB cable 49Y9890 - External power supply with power cord and universal plugs for all supported geographies 39M5516 - Power cord (1 m) that connects the power supply to the rack power distribution unit FC EU04 uses an external USB cable to connect to an external USB port. The EU04 feature code includes a USB cable, an external power supply, and a power cord as part of the feature code.  FC EU04 provides the following parts: 46C2333 (FRU: 46C2347) - External RDX USB 3.0 Dock 05H5081 (FRU: 05H5080) - External USB 3.0 Cable (2.7 m or 8'10'') 81Y3649 (FRU: 81Y8905) - External power supply with power cord and universal plugs for all supported geographies 39M5516 (FRU: 39M5516) - Power cord (1 m) that connects the power supply to the rack power distribution unit Removable disk drives Feature code Part number Description 1106 46C5375  160 GB Removable Disk Drive  EU08 46C5377 320 GB Removable Disk Drive  1107 46C5379 500 GB Removable Disk Drive  EU01 46C2335 1 TB Removable Disk Drive EU15 46C2831 1.5 TB Removable Disk Drive Purchasing additional removable disk drivesFor best results, use only the removable disk drives that are shown in . The removable disk drives are a supply item that can be ordered as a feature code. To order in the United States and Canada, call 1-888-IBM-MEDIA. To order drives in other locations, contact your local provider of IBM® storage products or see  (http://www.storage.ibm.com/media/).  The removable disk drives are not a service item. IBM service representatives are not dispatched to service or replace the removable disk drives. Storing removable disk drivesStore removable disk drives in their protective containers, on a flat surface with the top side up. The storage area must be clean and dry, must have normal room temperature, and must be away from any magnetic fields. For best storage life, use the removable disk drives every six months. Supported USB adapters and cables The docking station only supports the USB cable that is provided as part of the feature code. The docking station does not support attachment by using USB hubs, add-on USB cables, or USB cable extenders.  The external docking station can be connected to the external, integrated USB ports on  processor-based systems or can be connected to the USB ports on 4-Port USB PCI Express Adapter (FC 2728). The internal docking station can be connected to the internal USB port on the control panel of  processor-based systems.   When the USB port on the control panel is used for the docking station, the port is disabled for any other use. This information does not apply to an  system.   SpecificationsInterface USB 2.0 Mksysb Yes Bootable  Yes Physical form factor (internal docking station) 5.25 inch half high Environmental USB Removable Disk Drive Operating conditions Non-operating conditions Temperature 5 -55 C –40 -65 C  Relative humidity  8 - 90% noncondensing 5 - 95% noncondensing  Maximum wet bulb temperature  29.4 C noncondensing  40 C noncondensing  Maximum temperature gradient 20 C per hour 20 C per hour  Altitude –300 to 3048 m (10,000 ft) –300 to 12,192 m (40,000 ft) Supported operating systemsUSB Removable Disk Drive is supported on the following versions of operating systems:  AIX® 5L Version 5.3 with the 5300-11 Technology Level, or later IBM i 7.1 with the Technology Refresh PTF Group Level 5, or later AIX Version 6.1 with the 6100-04 Technology Level, or later Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 3 Update 7, or later SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 10, or later Using the USB Removable Disk Drive for backup and restore  If power is lost during a backup to the disk, the data can be compromised. Verify the data or rerun the backup.  Using the drive with AIX AIX names the drive usbmsx, for example, usbms1, and usbms2. AIX also can use the device as a raw device, for example, rusbms1 and rusbms2. AIX uses the removable disk drive differently depending on the program being used. The AIX  command builds a list of files to back up, creates a universal disk format (UDF) file system, and puts a boot image and the root volume group on the removable disk drive.  When the  process is complete the removable disk drive can be used to boot the system.  If you mount the removable disk drive, you can display and copy files to and from the UDF file system on the removable disk drive.  The AIX , , , , and  commands can write to the removable disk drive as a raw device or non raw device. You might get improved performance by using the device as a raw device.  See the AIX documentation for additional information. Using the drive with IBM iIBM i configures the drive as a removable media drive with a name in the format RMSxx, for example, RMS01. The drive and cartridge are used with optical commands and utilities (for example, WRKOPTVOL and INZOPT), and reports media in the QOPT file system. See the IBM i documentation for information about using IBM i copy and backup commands. Using the drive with LinuxLinux configures the drive as a disk drive with a name in the format sdx, for example, sda, sdb, and sdc. See the Linux documentation for information about using Linux copy and backup commands. Setting the write-protect switchThe removable disk drives have a red, write-protect tab that is located on the back of the drive. To write-protect a drive, slide the write-protect tab toward the lock symbol. To disengage write protection, slide the tab to the unlock symbol.  Using the emergency eject functionTo eject a removable disk drive, press the eject button. If a drive is stuck, complete the following steps: If you using the internal docking station, power off the system. If you are using the external docking station, unplug the power cable from the device.  Insert a large straightened paper clip (or similar object) into the emergency eject hole. Do not insert the object in the hole at an angle. Keep the object straight and apply some force to eject the drive.  When the drive has been ejected by the docking station, grasp the exposed sides of the drive and pull the drive straight out.  Restart your system to reset the docking station. If you are using the external docking station, reconnect the power cable for the docking station and then restart the system. Status lightsLearn about the power indicator and drive indicator status lights on the USB Removable Disk Drive. The eject button is illuminated by a power indicator light. The following table describes the operation of the power indicator. Indicator status Meaning Description Off No power Docking station does not have power. Steady green Ready  Power is on and the docking station is working correctly. Flashing green Ejecting  Cartridge is ejecting. Flashing amber Fault   Docking station has detected a fault condition with the docking station. The disk drive has an indicator light that displays the status of the drive. The following table describes the operation of the drive indicator. Indicator status Meaning Description Off Not ready  Drive is not inserted correctly or the docking station has no power. Steady green Ready   Drive is ready. Flashing green Activity  Drive is reading, writing, or seeking. Flashing amber  Fault  Docking station has detected a fault condition with the cartridge. Installing the docking station for the removable disk drive Keep in mind the following points when you install FC 1104, the USB External Docking Station for Removable Disk Drive:A rack shelf is not included with FC 1104. The docking station can be rested on a flat surface in a rack or on a table top next to a rack.  Ensure that the device is on a flat surface, is right-side up, and is not likely to be bumped, dropped, or otherwise damaged or jolted.  If the docking station is placed by itself on a rack shelf, it will have space on the sides of the device.  No filler panels are provided with the docking station. If the docking station is placed on a rack shelf, ensure that the docking station has sufficient air flow but that is does not affect the air flow of the other systems in the rack.  Do not block the fan on the back of the docking station. Parent topic:          
 RDX SATA Internal Dock (EU07) and RDX Removable Disk Drives (1106, 1107, EU01, EU08, and EU15) Learn about the features of this drive. DescriptionThe SATA Removable Disk Drive consists of a docking station, which holds a removable disk drive. The docking station is available as an internal or external device.  The following illustrations show the internal drives. A Emergency eject hole B Cartridge indicator light C Eject button and power indicator light Feature codes and part numbersLearn about the feature codes (FCs) and part numbers for the SATA Removable Disk Drive. FC EU07 uses an internal SATA cable to connect to the internal SATA port on the control panel of a system that supports this feature. The SATA and power cable are included in the feature code. FC EU07 provides the following parts: 00E1478 (FRU: 00E1477) - Internal RDX SATA Dock 46K5450 - Internal SAS (logic and power) cable 46K7434 - Internal power cable (11 inch) with right angle power connector 44V3429 - Two drive slide assembly rails 1621187 - Four flat blade screws Removable disk drives Feature code Part number Description 1106 46C5375  160 GB Removable Disk Drive  1107 46C5379 500 GB Removable Disk Drive  EU01 46C2335 1 TB Removable Disk Drive EU08 46C5377 320 GB Removable Disk Drive  EU15 46C2831 1.5 TB Removable Disk Drive Purchasing additional removable disk drivesFor best results, use only the removable disk drives that are shown in . The removable disk drives are a supply item that can be ordered as a feature code. To order in the United States and Canada, call 1-888-IBM-MEDIA. To order drives in other locations, contact your local provider of IBM® storage products or see  (http://www.storage.ibm.com/media/). The removable disk drives are not a service item. IBM service representatives are not dispatched to service or replace the removable disk drives. Storing removable disk drivesStore removable disk drives in their protective containers, on a flat surface with the top side up. The storage area must be clean and dry, must have normal room temperature, and be away from any magnetic fields. For best storage life, use the removable disk drives every six months. Supported SATA adapters and cablesThe docking station only supports the SAS/SATA cable that is provided as part of the feature code. SpecificationsInterface SATA Bootable  Yes Physical form factor (internal docking station) 5.25 inch half high Environmental SATA Removable Disk Drive Operating conditions Non-operating conditions Temperature 5 to 55 C –40 to 65 C  Relative humidity  8 - 90% noncondensing 5 - 95% noncondensing  Maximum wet bulb temperature  29.4 C noncondensing  40 C noncondensing  Maximum temperature gradient 20 C per hour 20 C per hour  Altitude –300 to 3048 m (10,000 ft) –300 to 12,192 m (40,000 ft) Supported operating systemsSATA Removable Disk Drive is supported on the following versions of operating systems:  IBM i 7.1 with the Technology Refresh PTF Group Level 5, or later Using the SATA Removable Disk Drive for backup and restore  If power is lost during a backup to the disk, the data can be compromised. Verify the data or rerun the backup.  Using the drive with IBM iIBM i configures the drive as a removable media drive with a name in the format RMSxx, for example, RMS01. The drive and cartridge are used with optical commands and utilities (for example, WRKOPTVOL and INZOPT), and reports media in the QOPT file system. See the IBM i documentation for information about using IBM i copy and backup commands. Setting the write-protect switchThe removable disk drives have a red, write-protect tab that is located on the back of the drive. To write-protect a drive, slide the write-protect tab toward the lock symbol. To disengage write protection, slide the tab to the unlock symbol.  Using the emergency eject functionTo eject a removable disk drive, press the eject button. If a drive is stuck, complete the following steps: If you using the internal docking station, power off the system. If you are using the external docking station, unplug the power cable from the device.  Insert a large straightened paper clip (or similar object) into the emergency eject hole. Do not insert the object in the hole at an angle. Keep the object straight and apply some force to eject the drive. When the drive has been ejected by the docking station, grasp the exposed sides of the drive and pull the drive straight out.  Restart your system to reset the docking station. If you are using the external docking station, reconnect the power cable for the docking station and then restart the system. Status lightsyeaLearn about the power indicator and drive indicator status lights on the SATA Removable Disk Drive. The eject button is illuminated by a power indicator light. The following table describes the operation of the power indicator.  Indicator status Meaning Description Off No power Docking station does not have power. Steady green Ready  Power is on and the docking station is working correctly. Flashing green Ejecting  Cartridge is ejecting. Flashing amber Fault   Docking station has detected a fault condition with the docking station. The disk drive has an indicator light that displays the status of the drive. The following table describes the operation of the drive indicator. Indicator status Meaning Description Off Not ready  Drive is not inserted correctly or the docking station has no power. Steady green Ready   Drive is ready. Flashing green Activity  Drive is reading, writing, or seeking. Flashing amber  Fault  Docking station has detected a fault condition with the cartridge. Parent topic:          
 Managing communications devices Learn about the LAN-Attached Remote Asynchronous Node (RAN) 16 (model 7036-P16). Learn about installing, removing, replacing and managing the LAN-Attached Remote Asynchronous Node (RAN) 16 (model 7036-P16). Parent topic:          
 LAN-Attached Remote Asynchronous Node 16 (model 7036-P16) Learn about installing, removing, replacing and managing the LAN-Attached Remote Asynchronous Node (RAN) 16 (model 7036-P16).  Additional information can be found on the software CD provided with this device. Learn about the product description, characteristics, and throughput considerations for this device. You might need to install this hardware. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. You might need to install the Digi RealPort software on an AIX® or Linux host server. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. You might need to configure the 7036-P16 as a serial device on a host server. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. You might need to configure the 7036-P16 device to work within the system network. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. You might need to use diagnostic programs to identify hardware problems. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. You might need to create a 7036-P16 configuration file, reconfigure a 7036-P16 from a stored configuration file, or replace a 7036-P16. Use the procedures in this section to perform this task. Identify field replacement units (FRUs) for the 7036-P16. Parent topic:          
 7036-P16 description and overview Learn about the product description, characteristics, and throughput considerations for this device. Product description The 7036-P16 is a 16-port EIA-232 LAN-Attached Remote Asynchronous Node (RAN) for Power® Systems servers. The 7036-P16 provides connectivity to asynchronous EIA-232 devices, such as modems, terminal type (tty) terminals, printers, and so on. The 7036-P16 can be used in a rack-mounted or table-top configuration. Hardware to mount the 7036-P16 in a rack or to use on a table top is included in the package. When installed in a rack, take care with routing the cables to ensure the cables do not interfere with other devices mounted in the rack. The 7036-P16, when used with Digi RealPort software, will convert the serial data stream to and from attached asynchronous EIA-232 devices into TCP/IP traffic. After the data is on the TCP/IP network, a host system attached to the same network can treat the attached devices as if the devices were connected directly to the host system. Product characteristicsSafety:UL CD certified to EN60950 3rd Edition CSA C22.2 No 60950 UL recognized to UL60950 3rd Edition Physical characteristics:Physical Dimensions: (16.8in./42.7cm)x(6.6in./16.76cm)x(1.6in./4.06cm) Weight: 7.05 lb./3.2 kg  Environmental Limits:Operating Temperature: 0 - 40 C (ambient air temperature)  Humidity: 5 - 95% (noncondensing)  Wet Bulb: 29 C Altitude: 0 - 7000 ft  Storage Temperature: 1 - 60 C Humidity: 5 - 80% (non-condensing)  Wet Bulb: 29 C Shipping  Temperature: -40 to 60 C  Humidity: 5 - 100% (non-condensing)  Wet Bulb: 29 C Power Consumption Voltage (input) Current (amp)  Watt 100 - 250 VAC nominal 0.8 A Maximum 12 W typical         90 - 264 VAC maximum     40A in rush    47/63 Hz  2A fuse   Throughput considerationsThe limits on throughput are a function of the network and the server or server partition to which the 7036-P16 ports are configured. System port throughput: The 7036-P16 supports full-duplex operation up to 230 kbps on all ports. Operation with all 16 ports running full-duplex at 230 kbps is supported. Network throughput: The 7036-P16 is an Ethernet attached device and as such, any number may be attached to a given network. However, attaching more devices to any network reduces the overall network throughput and care must be taken to not overload any given network. Testing has shown that as many as eight 7036-P16 devices may be attached to a network without adversely affecting network throughput. Eight 7036-P16 devices will support up to 128 asynchronous EIA-232 connections. More devices may be attached, but network performance may be adversely affected. Server or partition throughput: Each 7036-P16 provides 16-Ports of asynchronous EIA-232 connectivity over a 10/100 Ethernet port at speeds up to 230 kbps. Given that any number of 7036-P16s may be attached to a server or partition, a single server or partition could in effect have a very large number of asynchronous EIA-232 connections that could adversely affect any single server or partition. Parent topic:          
 Installing 7036-P16 hardware You might need to install this hardware. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. The following information describes the materials and procedures for installing this device. A Phillips screwdriver is required to complete the installation of this unit. Before you install the 7036-P16 unit, verify that the hardware package contains the following items:7036-P16 unit 7036-P16 software and documentation CD 7036-P16 Quick Setup Guide Brackets to mount 7036-P16 on rack Rubber feet for tabletop usage Power® cord (North American 120 V ac use only) RJ-45 to DB25 serial cable DB25 wired per EIA-232 specification RJ-45 to DB09 serial cable DB09 matches pin configuration on existing DB09 system ports on Power Systems servers RJ-45 wrap plug for diagnostics. Installing the deskside 7036-P16 unitTo install the deskside 7036-P16 unit, do the  following steps:Unpack the hardware. Remove the rubber feet from the plastic bag. Attach the rubber feet to the bottom of the 7036-P16 in the locations indicated. Attach the power cord. A power cord for use in North America is provided. Use an Ethernet cable to connect the 7036-P16 to the network. Connect serial devices as needed. Installing the rack-mounted 7036-P16 unitTo install the rack-mounted 7036-P16 unit, do the following steps:Unpack the hardware. Remove the right-angle brackets and screws from the plastic bag. Use a Phillips screw to attach the brackets in the predrilled holes on the sides of the 7036-P16. Mount the 7036-P16 in the same location from which the 7036-P16 was removed. Attach the power cord. A power cord for use with 120 V ac is provided.Optional rack power cord feature codes (FC) are available to connect the 7036-P16 to the rack Power Distribution Unit (PDU). These cords come in various lengths. They are identified by the following feature codes: FC 6458: Power Cord (14-foot), Drawer to IBM® PDU, 250V/10A FC 6672: Power Cord (9-foot), Drawer to IBM PDU, 250V/10A FC 6671: Power Cord (5-foot), Drawer to IBM PDU, 250V/10A  The previous features are only available for use in racks less than 25U in size. Use an Ethernet cable to connect the 7036-P16 to the network. Connect serial devices as needed. Parent topic:          
 Installing Digi RealPort software for the 7036-P16 device You might need to install the Digi RealPort software on an AIX® or Linux host server. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. Digi RealPort software-support packagesThe following is a list of the software packages available on the software CD provided with the 7036-P16 unit: The Digi RealPort software package for AIX supports the following AIX levels:AIX 5L™ 5.2.0.75 (and later) AIX 5L 5.3.0.30 (and later) The Digi RealPort software package for Linux supports the following Linux levels:  Version , Update 3  SUSE Version SLES 9 SP2 Installing the Digi RealPort softwareTo install the Digi RealPort software, do the following steps:Install all updates and packages required to bring the operating system to the supported levels. Install all Linux packages required to compile and create binaries from the Digi RealPort Software source code.The following is a list of Linux packages that are required to install the Digi RealPort software:gcc gcc-64bit gcc-c++ gcc-g77-64bit gcc-info gcc-locale gcc-objc gcc-objc-64bit kernel sources glibc-devel-64bit ncurses-64bit ncurses-devel Install the Digi RealPort software. To install the software, see the following procedures. Installing the AIX Digi RealPort softwareTo install the software package for the AIX environment, do the following steps:Log in to the host server as the root user. Insert the CD-ROM into the CD-ROM drive. Type the following command: smitty install_all Press F4. Select digiasync, then press Enter. Use the cursor to scroll to ACCEPT new license agreement Press F4. Select Yes, then press Enter.When installation commences, do not interfere until the installation completes. A successful installation will return an OK message. An unsuccessful installation will return a FAILED message.  If you receive an OK message, continue to the next step. If you receive a failed message, review the smit.log file to determine why the installation failed. Press F10. Type: lslpp -l | grep digi  If the Digi RealPort package installed correctly, you will receive a message. The following are examples of return messages:digiasync.realport.obj   3.8.7.0   COMMITTED     Digi RealPort Driver digiasync.realport.obj   3.8.7.0   COMMITTED     Digi RealPort Driver After the Digi RealPort Software is installed, the user may configure the 7036-P16 onto the network, if it is not already configured. For instructions on how to perform the network configuration, see . Installing the Linux SUSE Digi RealPort softwareTo install the software package for the Linux SUSE environment, do the following steps:Log in to the server as the root user. If the CD-ROM is already inserted and mounted, then proceed to step 5. Insert the CD-ROM into the CD-ROM drive. Type: mount -t auto /dev/cdrom /mnt Type: cp /mnt/linux/40002086_M.src.rpm /usr/src/packages/SOURCES Type: umount /mnt Type: cd /usr/src/linux Type: make mrproper Type: make oldconfig Type: cd /usr/src/packages/SOURCES Type: rpmbuild --rebuild 40002086_M.src.rpm Type: rpm -i /usr/src/packages/RPMS/ppc64/dgrp-1.9-6.ppc64.rpm Type: rpm -qa | grep dgrIf the Digi RealPort Package installed correctly, the following is an example of the return message: dgr-1.9.6 After the Digi RealPort software is installed, the user may configure the 7036-P16 onto the network, if it is not already configured. For instructions on how to perform the network configuration, see . Installing the Linux  Digi RealPort softwareTo install the software package for the Linux  environment, do the following steps:Log in to the server as the root user. If the CD-ROM is already inserted and mounted, then proceed to step 5. Insert the CD-ROM into the CD-ROM drive. Type: mount -t auto /dev/cdrom /mnt Type: cp /mnt/linux/40002086_M.src.rpm /usr/src/packages/SOURCES Type: umount /mnt Type: cd /usr/src/packages/SOURCES Type: rpmbuild --rebuild 40002086_M.src.rpm Type: rpm -i /usr/src/packages/RPMS/ppc64/dgrp-1.9-6.ppc64.rpm Type: rpm -qa | grep dgrIf the Digi RealPort Package installed correctly, the following is an example of the return message: dgr-1.9.6 Afer the Digi RealPort software is installed, the user may configure the 7036-P16 onto the network, if it is not already configured. For instructions on how to perform the network configuration, see . Parent topic:          
 Configuring the 7036-P16 into the network You might need to configure the 7036-P16 device to work within the system network. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. The following sections describe methods for configuring the 7036-P16 in a network: the Ethernet method, the ping-ARP method, and the direct-terminal attach method. Network configuration methods and considerationsThe 7036-P16 is an Ethernet device and as such it must be configured onto the network like any other Ethernet device. Various network configuration methods are available to the user. Configuring the 7036-P16 onto an Ethernet network If the 7036-P16 is to be used in a network that supports Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP), then the configuration will be performed by simply connecting to the network and powering up the 7036-P16. The 7036-P16 is shipped from the factory with the DHCP option enabled. If DHCP is not supported on the network, then the user must choose between the ping-ARP configuration or the direct terminal attach method. The ping-ARP configuration method is recommended for the following reasons:This method does not require the user to be in the same room as the 7036-P16. This method does not require any extra hardware, such as a terminal type (tty) terminal or cabling to attach the 7036-P16 to the tty terminal. This method works equally well for AIX® and Linux installations. This method does not require the 7036-P16 be connected into a network that supports DHCP. Ping-ARP network configuration methodTo configure the 7036-P16 device into the network using this method, do the following steps: Gather the following information from the system or network administrator:MAC Address: [MAC Address] (MAC Address label is on the back of the 7036-P16)  IP Address: [IP Address]  Default Gateway: [IP Gateway Address]  Name Server: [Name Server Address]  Subnet Mask: [Subnet mask] Host Name: [Host Name] Domain Name: [Domain Name] Connect the power cord from the 7036-P16 to a power source and turn the power on. Connect the Ethernet cable from the 7036-P16 to an Ethernet network. Log in to a server as root user, and make sure the server is on the same subnet as the 7036-P16. Manually update the server's ARP table. Use the IP address and the 7036-P16's MAC address gathered in Step 1.The AIX and the Linux command line entries to update the ARP table are different, use the following examples on how to update the server's ARP table:AIX Command: arp -s ether [IP Address] [MAC Address] Linux Command: arp -v -H ether -s [IP Address] [MAC Address] Ping the 7036-P16 using the IP address by typing: ping -c 1 [IP Address] The ping may time out before there is a response from the 7036-P16. Repeat the ping until the 7036-P16 responds. The ping response indicates that the IP address has been configured. Use telnet to access the 7036-P16, using the IP address from the ping command: telnet [IP Address] Log in to the 7036-P16 as root. Use the default password: dbps After logging in, you can change the root password. To change the password, type: newpass Follow the prompts provided after entering the command. To view the current configuration, type: set config Type the following commands on the 7036-P16 command line using the information gathered in Step 1 to complete the IP Address configuration:       set config ip=[IP Address]        set config submask=[Subnet Mask]        set config gateway=[IP Gateway Address]        set config dns=[Name Server Address]        set config dhcp=off        set config hostname=[Host Name]        set config domain=[Domain Name]  As a precaution, you can deactivate the ping-ARP and RARP options. To deactivate the ping-ARP and RARP options type the following commands: set config Ping-ARP=off set config RARP=off          If the user plans to use the Digi RealPort software on the host server to control all the 7036-P16 ports, then the system ports must be configured for use with the Digi RealPort software. Type the following command:  set port range=* dev=rp Issue the reboot command to the 7036-P16 in order to permanently set the changes. Type the following command: boot action=reset When the 7036-P16 reboots, then the network configuration is complete.  The 7036-P16 can now be accessed through the Ethernet connection. The user can program other features as required. See additional documentation on the 7036-P16 Software and Documentation CD. Direct-attach configuration method A regular tty terminal or a PC running a terminal emulation program, may be attached directly to any one of the 16 ports and commands entered on the 7036-P16 command line to configure the 7036-P16 onto the network. This method requires the user to be in the same room as the 7036-P16. This method requires the user to have a tty terminal or a PC available. This method requires a serial cable to connect the tty terminal or PC to the server. This method is independent of the operating system installed on the server. To configure the 7036-P16 device into the network using this method, do the following steps: Gather the following information from the system or network administrator:MAC Address: [MAC Address] (MAC Address label is on the back of the 7036-P16) IP Address: [IP Address] Default Gateway: [IP Gateway Address] Name Server: [Name Server Address] Subnet Mask: [Subnet mask] Host Name: [Host Name] Domain Name: [Domain Name] Connect the power cord from the 7036-P16 to a power source and power up. Connect the serial cable from tty terminal to the 7036-P16. Log in to the 7036-P16 as the root user, use the default password dbps.  After login, you can change the root password. Type:newpass  To view the current configuration, type: set config Type the following commands on the 7036-P16 command line using the information gathered in Step 1 to complete the IP Address configuration:       set config ip=[IP Address]        set config submask=[Subnet Mask]        set config gateway=[IP Gateway Address]        set config dns=[Name Server Address]        set config dhcp=off        set config hostname=[Host Name]        set config domain=[Domain Name] As a precaution, you can deactivate the Ping-ARP and RARP options. To deactivate the Ping-ARP and RARP options type the following commands: set config Ping-ARP=off set config RARP=off          If you plan to use the Digi RealPort software on the host server to control all the 7036-P16 ports, then the system ports must be configured for use with the Digi RealPort software. Type the following command:  set port range=* dev=rp Issue the reboot command to the 7036-P16 in order to permanently set the changes. Type the following command: boot action=reset When the 7036-P16 reboots, then the network configuration is complete.  The 7036-P16 may now be accessed via the Ethernet connection. The user can program other features as required. See additional documentation on the 7036-P16 Software and Documentation CD. Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Configuring the 7036-P16 device and tty You might need to configure the 7036-P16 as a serial device on a host server. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. The task consists of the following steps:Configure the 7036-P16 as a serial device on a host server installed with one of the following operating systems:AIX 5L™ 5.2.0.75, or later AIX 5L 5.3.0.30, or later , Update 3, or later , SP2, or later This in effect binds the 7036-P16 to the host server. Configure 7036-P16 system ports for use with Digi RealPort software. Configuring a 7036-P16 device on an AIX host server Assumptions:The target 7036-P16 and the host server are configured on an Ethernet network. The target 7036-P16 and the host server are attached to an Ethernet network. The Digi RealPort software is installed on the server.  Gather the following information:IP Address of the target 7036-P16: [7036-P16 IP Address] IP Address of the host server: [Host Server IP Address] Root password of target 7036-P16 Configure the 7036-P16 as a serial device on an AIX® server: Ensure that the 7036-P16 and the server are on the  network. Ping the 7036-P16 by typing the following command: ping -c 1 [IP Address of target 7036-P16] If the 7036-P16 responds to the ping, then it is on the network and the user can proceed to the next step. If the 7036-P16 does not respond to the ping, then the 7036-P16 is not on the network and the user must perform the network configuration procedure, see . Ensure that the Digi RealPort Software is installed on the server. Type the following command:         lslpp -l | grep digiThe response indicates that the digiasync.realport.obj file is installed.  If the response indicates the Digi RealPort Software is installed then proceed to step 3. If there is no response, then the Digi RealPort Software is not installed and the user must install the Digi RealPort Software, see .         Type: smitty devices Use the cursor to select: Digi Device and Terminal Servers, then press Enter. Use the cursor to select: Add a Digi Device and Terminal Servers , then press Enter Use the cursor to select: cts_16_r, then press Enter. Move the cursor to the IP Address box and type: [IP Address], then press Enter. This is the [IP Address of the target 7036-P16] used in Step 1.Upon successful completion of this command the user will see the following on the screen:      Command: OK            stdout: yes           stderr: no       Before command completion, additional instructions may appear. sa[device number] Available   Press F3. To configure additional devices, repeat Steps 7. through 10. Press F10 to exit from smitty and return to the server's command line. After the serial device is configured, the terminal type (tty) ports may be configured. Configuring a 7036-P16 system port tty on an AIX host serverAssumptions:The target 7036-P16 and the host server are configured on an Ethernet network. The target 7036-P16 and the host server are attached to an Ethernet network. The Digi RealPort software is installed on the server.  Gather the following information:IP Address of the target 7036-P16: [7036-P16 IP Address] IP Address of the host server: [Host Server IP Address] Root password of target 7036-P16 Procedure:Ensure that the 7036-P16 and the server are on the  network. Ping the 7036-P16 by typing the following command: ping -c 1 [IP Address of target 7036-P16] If the 7036-P16 responds to the ping, then it is on the network and the user may proceed to the next step.  If the 7036-P16 does not respond to the ping, then the 7036-P16 is not on the network and the user must perform the network configuration procedure, see . Ensure that the Digi RealPort Software is installed on the server. Type the following command:        lslpp -l | grep digi The response indicates that the digiasync.realport.obj file is installed. If the response indicates the Digi RealPort Software is installed then proceed to the next step. If there is no response, then the Digi RealPort Software is not installed and the user must install the Digi RealPort software, see . Type: smitty tty, then press Enter. Use the cursor to select: Add a tty, then press Enter. Use the cursor to select: tty rs232 Asynchronous Terminal, then press Enter. Use the cursor to select: sa[device number] Available  IBM LAN Attached RAN 16, then press Enter. Enter a port number not already assigned to a tty, for example 1, and       press EnterUpon successful completion of this command the user sees the following on the screen:         Command: OK            stdout: yes           stderr: no        Before command completion, additional instructions may appear.        tty[number]     Available  The [number] is the number assigned by smitty as the next available tty device. Press F3.  To configure additional tty devices, repeat Steps 7. through 9. Press F10 to exit from smitty and return to the server's command line. This concludes the system port tty configuration on an AIX Server. Configuring the 7036-P16 as a tty device on a Linux host serverAssumptions:The target 7036-P16 and the host server are configured on an Ethernet network. The target 7036-P16 and the host server are attached to an Ethernet network. The Digi RealPort software is installed on the server. Gather the following information:IP Address of the target 7036-P16: [7036-P16 IP Address] IP Address of the host server: [Host Server IP Address] Root password of target 7036-P16 Procedure:Ensure that the 7036-P16 and the server are on the  network. Ping the 7036-P16 by typing the following command: ping -c 1 [IP Address of target 7036-P16]   If the 7036-P16 responds to the ping, then it is on the network and the user may proceed to the next step. If the 7036-P16 does not respond to the ping, then the 7036-P16 is not on the network and the user must perform the network configuration procedure, see . Ensure that the Digi RealPort software is installed on the server. Type the following command:         rpm -qa | grep dgr The response from the command is: dgr-1.9.6   If there is no response, then the Digi RealPort software is not installed and the user must install the Digi RealPort Software, see the Linux  or the Linux SuSE installation procedure, see .       Type the following command: dgrp_cfg_node -v init [Device ID] [IP Address] [7036-P16 Port(s)] Where: [Device ID] is any two characters that the user uses to identify the target 7036-P16.     [IP Address] is the IP Address of the target 7036-P16. [7036-P16 Port(s)] correspond to the port number(s) being configured. This concludes the system port tty configuration on a Linux Host server. Parent topic:          
 Using diagnostic aids for the 7036-P16 You might need to use diagnostic programs to identify hardware problems. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. The 7036-P16 is not supported under AIX® Diagnostics. A means to diagnose  hardware problems with the 7036-P16 is provided by an executable program.  The purpose of this program is to diagnose hardware problems with the 7036-P16, such as bad connectors, faulty electronic components, and so on. The diagnostic is not intended to resolve protocol problems, network problems or a faulty host server to which the 7036-P16 may be attached. Requirements for using the 7036-P16 diagnostic programThe 7036-P16 and the AIX host server must be on the same network. The Digi RealPort Software for AIX Package must be installed.  The user must ensure the problems are not caused by a faulty host server, the network or a device attached to any one of the 16 system ports. The Diagnostic Program is run from the AIX host server. Wrap Plug IBM® part number 43G0928. 7036-P16 diagnostic program capabilitiesWrap data on each of the 16 system ports Monitor data on each of the 16 system ports Provide VPD (vital production data) Using the 7036-P16 diagnostic programLog in to the AIX host server as root. From the root home directory type:./usr/lbin/tty/dpa-ncxa  Press Enter. The next screen will present a list of all the 7036-P16s configured on the host server. The list includes the device name and the IP Address for each 7036-P16. The user should look at the bottom of the screen for options. Select a 7036-P16 on the list by using the cursor keys. The 7036-P16 selected is highlighted. Type D to see the 7036-P16 product information. Press enter to test an individual terminal type (tty) port on the selected 7036-P16. The next screen will present Port-1 of the 7036-P16 that was selected. To select a different tty port, use the cursor keys to either increment or decrement the port number. Once a tty port is selected, then select one of the following items:Wrap data by typing a T. If this option is chosen, use wrap plug part number 43G0928. Insert the wrap plug into the tty port. Monitor the data on the selected port by typing a D. To exit the diagnostic program, press ESC. General purpose diagnostic procedures, visual inspectionsEthernet cablesEnsure an Ethernet cable is attached to the 7036-P16 and the host server. Ensure the Ethernet cable is wired correctly. Ensure the Ethernet cable is good. Serial cablesEnsure a serial cable is attached to every 7036-P16 port that is in use. Ensure the serial cables are wired correctly. Ensure the serial cables are good. Investigating Ethernet network problems associated with the 7036-P16 Gather the following information:For the 7036-P16:MAC Address: [MAC Address] (MAC Address label is on the back of the 7036-P16) IP Address: [7036-P16 IP Address]  Default Gateway: [IP Gateway Address]  Name Server: [Name Server Address]  Host Name: [Host Name] (if a host name is assigned)  For the host server: Machine Type and Model  AIX Level IP Address: [Host server IP Address]  Default Gateway: [IP Gateway Address]  Name Server: [Name Server Address]  Host Name: [Host Name] (if a host name is assigned) Ping the 7036-P16 from the host server by typing: ping -c 1 [7036-P16 IP Address] If the 7036-P16 responds to the ping, then both devices are on the network; the problem is not a network attachment problem. If the ping times out, then either the 7036-P16 or the host server is not on the network. Use traceroute to see where the link between the 7036-P16 and the host server is broken. Type:traceroute [7036-P16 IP Address] Parent topic:          
 Replacing and reconfiguring the 7036-P16 You might need to create a 7036-P16 configuration file, reconfigure a 7036-P16 from a stored configuration file, or replace a 7036-P16. Use the procedures in this section to perform this task. This section provides instructions on how to perform the following tasks:Creating a 7036-P16 configuration file Reconfiguring a 7036-P16 from a stored configuration file Replacing a 7036-P16 Creating a 7036-P16 configuration fileCreate a copy of the 7036-P16 configuration and to store it on the host server. Hardware requirements:AIX® or Linux host server with web access 7036-P16 attached to an Ethernet network Gather the following information:IP Address of the target 7036-P16: [7036-P16 IP Address]  IP Address of the host server: [Host Server IP Address] Root password of target 7036-P16 7036-P16 configuration file creation methods The following are methods for creating a 7036-P16 configuration file:Web user interface method Command line methodAccess the 7036-P16 command line and enter commands directly onto the 7036-P16. This method requires TFTP to be enabled on the host server. Web user interface method To create a configuration file using the web user interface method, do the following steps:Use the host server to access the web interface of the target 7036-P16 by entering the 7036-P16 IP address in a browser's URL window, then log in as the root user. Select Backup/Restore Select Backup Select Save The program will create a file named backup.cfg. Consider changing that name to something more meaningful. Example: backup_[IP Address].txt When the task is completed a Download Complete message will be posted to the screen. Command line method To create a configuration file using the command line method, do the following steps:Ensure the TFTP daemon is enabled on the host server. On an AIX server type the following on the command line: ps -ef | grep tftp If the TFTP daemon is enabled, the response will include two active TFTP processes and the user should proceed to Step 8. If the response indicates that only the grep process is active, then the TFTP daemon must be enabled. To enable the TFTP daemon, type the following command: smitty subsys Select Start a Subsystem, then press Enter. Press F4 Search the resulting list for tftpd, then press Enter. Telnet to the target 7036-P16. Type: telnet [IP Address of target 7036-P16], then press Enter. Login as the root user, use the root password. Type the following on the 7036-P16 command line: cpconf tohost=[Host Server IP Address]:/tmp/backup_[IP Address].txt The complete IP and terminal type (tty) port configuration information is now captured in the backup_[IP Address].txt file. If the user changes the configuration, the user is strongly advised to recreate the backup_[IP Address].txt file. The user should make a note of the file name created. Reconfiguring a 7036-P16 from a stored configuration fileUse a stored configuration file when replacing a 7036-P16. Hardware requirements:AIX or Linux host server with web access 7036-P16 attached to an Ethernet network Gather the following information:IP Address of the target 7036-P16: [7036-P16 IP Address] IP Address of the host server: [Host Server IP Address] Root password of target 7036-P16 7036-P16 reconfiguration methods The following are methods for creating a 7036-P16 configuration file:Web user interface method Command line methodAccess the 7036-P16 command line and enter commands directly onto the 7036-P16. This method requires TFTP to be enabled on the host server. Web user interface method To modify the configuration file using the web user interface method, do the following steps:Use the host server to access the web interface of the target 7036-P16 by entering the 7036-P16 IP address in a browser's URL window, then log in as the root user. Select Backup/Restore Select Browse and navigate to the directory where the stored file is kept on the host server. Select the stored configuration file and click on Open. For example: backup_[IP Address].txt      The complete path to the stored file will appear in the Browse window. Click on Restore. Wait for the configuration to complete, then click on Done. Click on Reboot. The task is complete when the 7036-P16 reboots. Command line method To modify the configuration file using the command line method, do the following steps:Telnet to the target 7036-P16. Type: telnet [IP Address of target 7036-P16], then press Enter. Login as root, use the root password. To reconfigure the 7036-P16, type the  following command: cpconf fromhost=[Host Server IP Address]:/tmp/backup_[IP Address].txt Reboot the 7036-P16. Type: boot action=reset When the 7036-P16 reboots, then the task is complete. Replacing a 7036-P16 Before replacing a 7036-P16, create a 7036-P16 configuration file. You need a Phillips screwdriver to replace this unit. To replace a 7036-P16 unit, do the following steps:Gather the following IP information for the 7036-P16 unit to be replaced:MAC Address: [MAC Address] (MAC Address label is on the back of the 7036-P16)  IP Address: [IP Address]  Default Gateway: [IP Gateway Address]  Name Server: [Name Server Address]  Subnet Mask: [Subnet mask] Host Name: [Host Name] Domain Name: [Domain Name] Power off the 7036-P16. Remove the power cord. Remove the Ethernet cable. Remove each serial cable, and make sure each cable is marked indicating from which tty port it was removed. If the 7036-P16 is installed as a desktop unit, then remove the rubber feet from the plastic bag and attach them to the replacement 7036-P16. If the 7036-P16 is used as a rack mounted device, then undo the screws from the rack and remove the 7036-P16 from the rack. Remove the replacement 7036-P16 unit from the shipping package. Remove the right angle brackets and screws from the plastic bag. Use a Phillips screw to attach the brackets in the predrilled holes on the sides of the 7036-P16. Mount the new 7036-P16 in the same location from which the previous 7036-P16 was removed. Attach the power cord. Attach the Ethernet cable. Attach the serial cables, using the markings from Step 5 in order to restore each cable to its previous port. After the 7036 is configured on the network, telnet to the target 7036-P16.  Type: telnet [IP Address of target 7036-P16] Log in as the root user. To reconfigure the 7036-P16, type the  following command:cpconf fromhost=[Host Server IP Address]:/tmp/backup_[IP Address].txt           Parent topic:          
 Field replacement units for the 7036-P16 Identify field replacement units (FRUs) for the 7036-P16. The following table lists the FRUs for the 7036-P16.Part number Description 80P6911     7036-P16 FRU 10N7714  7036-P16 Software and Documentation CD. Form Number: LCD8-0170-01  03N6839  7036-P16 Rubber Feet and Brackets Accessory FRU  39J5823 RJ-45 to DB09 (male) cable 12H1204  DB25 to DB25 (male) cable Parent topic:          
 Class B Notices The following Class B statements apply to features designated as electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) Class B in the feature installation information. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) statementThis equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a residential installation. This equipment generates, uses, and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful interference to radio communications. However, there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio or television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on, the user is encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures: Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna. Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver. Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected. Consult an IBM-authorized dealer or service representative for help. Properly shielded and grounded cables and connectors must be used in order to meet FCC emission limits. Proper cables and connectors are available from IBM-authorized dealers. IBM is not responsible for any radio or television interference caused by unauthorized changes or modifications to this equipment. Unauthorized changes or modifications could void the user's authority to operate this equipment.  This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC rules. Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) this device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including interference that may cause undesired operation.  Industry Canada Compliance StatementThis Class B digital apparatus complies with Canadian ICES-003. Avis de conformité à la réglementation d'Industrie CanadaCet appareil numérique de la classe B est conforme à la norme NMB-003 du Canada.  European Community Compliance StatementThis product is in conformity with the protection requirements of EU Council Directive 2004/108/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to electromagnetic compatibility. IBM cannot accept responsibility for any failure to satisfy the protection requirements resulting from a non-recommended modification of the product, including the fitting of non-IBM option cards.  This product has been tested and found to comply with the limits for Class B Information Technology Equipment according to European Standard EN 55022. The limits for Class B equipment were derived for typical residential environments to provide reasonable protection against interference with licensed communication equipment. European Community contact: IBM Deutschland GmbH Technical Regulations, Department M372 IBM-Allee 1, 71139 Ehningen, Germany  Tele: +49 7032 15 2941 email:  lugi@de.ibm.com VCCI Statement - Japan Japanese Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Confirmed Harmonics Guideline (products less than or equal to 20 A per phase) Japanese Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Confirmed Harmonics Guideline with Modifications (products greater than 20 A per phase) IBM Taiwan Contact Information Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) Statement - Korea Germany Compliance StatementDeutschsprachiger EU Hinweis:  Hinweis für Geräte der Klasse B EU-Richtlinie zur Elektromagnetischen Verträglichkeit Dieses Produkt entspricht den Schutzanforderungen der EU-Richtlinie 2004/108/EG zur Angleichung der Rechtsvorschriften über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit in den EU-Mitgliedsstaaten und hält die Grenzwerte der EN 55022 Klasse B ein.   Um dieses sicherzustellen, sind die Geräte wie in den Handbüchern beschrieben zu installieren und zu betreiben. Des Weiteren dürfen auch nur von der IBM empfohlene Kabel angeschlossen werden. IBM übernimmt keine Verantwortung für die Einhaltung der Schutzanforderungen, wenn das Produkt ohne Zustimmung von IBM verändert bzw. wenn Erweiterungskomponenten von Fremdherstellern ohne Empfehlung von IBM gesteckt/eingebaut werden. Deutschland: Einhaltung des Gesetzes über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit von Geräten Dieses Produkt entspricht dem “Gesetz über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit von Geräten (EMVG)“. Dies ist die Umsetzung der EU-Richtlinie 2004/108/EG in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland.  Zulassungsbescheinigung laut dem Deutschen Gesetz über die elektromagnetische Verträglichkeit von Geräten (EMVG) (bzw. der EMC EG Richtlinie 2004/108/EG) für Geräte der Klasse B Dieses Gerät ist berechtigt, in Übereinstimmung mit dem Deutschen EMVG das EG-Konformitätszeichen - CE - zu führen. Verantwortlich für die Einhaltung der EMV Vorschriften ist der Hersteller: International Business Machines Corp. New Orchard Road Armonk, New York 10504 Tel: 914-499-1900 Der verantwortliche Ansprechpartner des Herstellers in der EU ist: IBM Deutschland GmbH Technical Regulations, Abteilung M372 IBM-Allee 1, 71139 Ehningen, Germany  Tel: +49 7032 15 2941 email:  lugi@de.ibm.com Generelle Informationen:  Das Gerät erfüllt die Schutzanforderungen nach EN 55024 und EN 55022 Klasse B. Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
 Managing devices for the  Learn about managing media and communications devices. The topic contains reference information that information technology (IT) personnel and service representatives can use to learn about using and managing the following removable media devices and communication devices. You can also find specifications and installation notes for specific devices.  The following features are the electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) Class B features. See the EMC Class B Notices in the Hardware Notices section.36/72 GB Data72 4 mm Internal Tape Drive (5907) 80/160 GB DAT160 SAS Tape Drive (FC 5619) 80/160 GB DAT160 USB Tape Drive (FC EU16) 160/320 GB DAT320 SAS Tape Drive (FC 5661) 160/320 GB DAT320 USB Tape Drive (FC 5673) 1.5/3 TB LTO5 SAS Tape Drive (FC 5638) 2.5/6.25 TB LTO6 SAS Tape Drive (FC EU11) SATA Slimline DVD-ROM Drive (FC 5743) SATA Slimline DVD-RAM Drive (FC 5762) SATA Slimline DVD-RAM Drive (FC 5771) Internal RDX USB 2.0 Dock (1103) Internal RDX USB 3.0 Dock (EU03) RDX USB 2.0 External Dock (1104) RDX USB External Dock (EU04) RDX Removable Disk Drives (1106, 1107, EU01, EU08, and EU15) You can view and print a PDF of this information. Learn about using and managing removable media devices. Find specifications and installation notes for specific drives. Learn about using and managing removable media devices. Find specifications and installation notes for specific drives. Learn about the features of specific diskette drives. Find information about managing disk devices. Learn about using and managing removable disk drives. Find specifications and installation notes for specific drives. Learn about the LAN-Attached Remote Asynchronous Node (RAN) 16 (model 7036-P16). Related information:         
 Planning for the system Proper planning helps you place your server and identify the unique needs for your server. Good planning is essential for the successful setup and use of your server. It ensures that you have everything you need and that you have met all the prerequisites for your server. This will minimize errors during installation and allow for a quicker upgrade or installation. The planning information in this topic helps you place the server, plan power and environmental needs, and prepare for unique configurations based on how you will use the server (for example, clustering of servers, rack mounting, and Internet connections). Planning scenarios that you are responsible for include: A new server installation A model upgrade Hardware modifications (feature additions, removals, conversions, or relocations) Software modifications (additions, removals, updates, or other changes) To ensure that planning is completed successfully, you should assign a planning project manager who will provide a documented plan that includes:  A timeline for the activities to be performed Each major activity phase and the desired outcome A list of responsibilities and the person assigned A current system diagram and configuration listing, including all hardware content, software content, cabling, and other pertinent configuration items (if this is a modification to an existing system) An endsystem diagram showing hardware content and configuration details, including cabling   Give special attention to disk units, clustering, and logical partition (LPAR) system configurations.   A key contacts list, including off-hours contact information for all key task or activities participants A plan for communicating appropriate elements of your plan with key personnel (for example, seller, installer, management)   Read about new or significantly changed information in Site and hardware planning since the previous update of this topic collection. You can view and print a PDF of this information. These guidelines help you prepare your site for the delivery and installation of your server. This topic collection provides specifications that site planners can use to assess the physical site and operational requirements necessary to prepare your site for a new server. This information includes specifications for servers and expansion units, plugs and receptacles, and cables as well as information about power-distribution units and uninterruptible power supplies. Use system calculators to determine the system power load or the distributed floor load for your system.         
 What's new in Site and hardware planning Read about new or significantly changed information in Site and hardware planning since the previous update of this topic collection. March 2013The following updates have been made to the content: Added the  topic. Added the  topic. Updated the  topic. October 2012The following update has been made to the content: Added the  topic. Added the  topic. Added the  topic. May 2012The following update has been made to the content: Added the  topic. October 2011The following updates have been made to the content: Added the topic: . Added the topic: . Parent topic:          
 Model , , , , , and  server specifications Server specifications provide detailed information for your server, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances.  Limited configurations of the  two-processor socket servers are qualified to the EPA ENERGY STAR Computer Server requirements. The qualified configurations require a minimum of 128 GB of memory. The ENERGY STAR Power and Performance Data Sheet is provided as follows: Use the following specifications to plan for your server. Width  Depth  Height  EIA units1 Weight  440 mm (17.3 in.) 610 mm (24.0 in.) 173 mm (6.8 in.) 4 39.5 kg (87 lb ) Width  Depth Height Weight 328.5 mm (13 in.) (with tip foot)  183 mm (7.2 in.) (without tip foot) 688 mm (27.0 in. ) 541 mm (21.3 in.)  50 kg (111 lb) Width Depth Height Weight1 610 mm (24 in.) 711 mm (28 in.) 1016 mm (40 in.) 68 - 113 kg (150 - 250 lb) 1This is an estimated value. Width Depth Height Weight1 660 mm (26 in.) 737 mm (29 in.) 1016 mm (40 in.) 68 - 113 kg (150 - 250 lb) 1This is an estimated value. Width Depth Height Weight1 660 mm (26 in.) 622 mm (24.5 in.) 1016 mm (40 in.) 68 - 113 kg (150 - 250 lb) 1This is an estimated value. Electrical characteristics Properties Rated voltage and frequency1 100 - 127 V ac3 or 200 - 240 V ac at 47 - 63 Hz (, , , and ) 100 - 127 V ac, 200 - 208 V ac, and 220 - 240 V ac () 200 - 208 V ac and 220 - 240 V ac () Thermal output (maximum)2 2560 Btu/hr ( ()) 2867 Btu/hr ( ()) 3395 Btu/hr ( ()) 4778 Btu/hr ( ()) 5358 Btu/hr ( ()) 5562 Btu/hr ( ()) Maximum power consumption2 750 W ( ()) 840 W ( ()) 995 W ( ()) 1400 W ( ()) 1570 W ( ()) 1630 W ( ()) Maximum kVA4 0.765 ( ()) 0.857 ( ()) 1.015 ( ()) 1.429 ( ()) 1.602 ( ()) 1.664 ( ()) Power factor 0.98 Inrush current (maximum) 85 A (, , , and ) 12 A, 6 A, and 6 A () 9 A and 9 A () Leakage current (maximum) 0.74 mA Phase  Single Dual power feature code 2 x 5603 Branch circuit breaker 20 A maximum  Drawer mounted in  and  racks, and power distribution unit (PDU) 0298 or 0299  The power supplies automatically accept any voltage with the published, rated-voltage range. If dual power supplies are installed and operating, the power supplies draw approximately equal current from the utility (electrical supply) and provide approximately equal current to the load. Power draw and heat load vary greatly by configuration.  When planning for an electrical system, it is important to use maximum values.  However, when planning for heat load, you can use the IBM Systems Energy Estimator to obtain a heat output estimate based on a specific configuration.  See  website for more information. Power 720 servers are rated 100 - 127 V ac and 200 - 240 V ac. Power 740 servers are rated at 200 - 240 V ac. To calculate the amperage, multiply kVA by 1000 and divide that number by the operating voltage.  Environment Temperature  Recommended operating temperature  18°C - 27°C (64°F - 80°F) Allowable operating temperature 5°C - 35°C (41°F - 95°F) (Models , , , and ) 5°C - 40°C (41°F - 104°F) (Models  and ) Nonoperating temperature 5°C - 45°C (41°F - 113°F) Recommended relative humidity range 5.5°C (42°F) dew point to 60% RH and 15°C (59°F) dew point Allowable relative humidity range 20% - 80% Nonoperating relative humidity range 8% - 80%  Shipping temperature1 -40°C to 60°C (-40°F to 140°F) Shipping humidity range 5% - 100% Operating dew point 28°C (84°F)  Altitude range 0 - 3050 m (0 - 10000 ft)2 1 The maximum wet bulb temperature is 29°C (84°F).  If one or more feature codes that are listed in  are installed, then the maximum wet bulb temperature is 28°C (82°F). 2 Derate maximum dry-bulb temperature 1°C/300 m above 900 m. Feature codes (FCs) Feature code names 1738 / EQ38 856 GB (IBM i) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1752 / EQ52 900 GB (AIX/Linux) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1917 / 1866 146 GB (AIX/Linux) 15K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1925 / 1869 300 GB (AIX/Linux) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1947 / 1868 139 GB (IBM i) 15K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1948 / 1927 283 GB (IBM i) 15K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1953 / 1929 300 GB (AIX/Linux) 15K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1956 / 1844 283 GB (IBM i) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1962 / 1817 571 GB (IBM i) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1964 / 1818 600 GB (AIX/Linux) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) ESD2 / EQD2 1.14 TB (IBM i) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) ESD3 / EQD3 1.2 TB (AIX/Linux) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S)  Any feature code that is listed in this table and is installed in your system decreases the maximum wet bulb temperature that is allowed during shipping from 29°C (84°F) to 28°C (82°F).  Product description Declared A-weighted sound power level, LWad (B) Declared A-weighted sound pressure level, LpAm (dB)   Operating   Idle Operating Idle , , and  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, 2 power supplies, 6 hard drives.  5.6 5.5 40 38 , , and  single-socket processor, 2 power supplies, 6 hard drives. Stand-alone system feature code (7572)  5.6 5.5 39 37 , , and  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, 2 power supplies, low profile PCIe riser card, 6 hard drives 6.3 6.3 47 47 , , and  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, 2 power supplies, 6 hard drives, and acoustic mode off 6.5 6.5 49 49 , , and  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, 1 power supply, 6 hard drives 6.5 6.5 51 51 , , and  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, 1 power supply, 6 hard drives, and low profile PCIe riser card.  6.7 6.7 52 52  LWad is the statistical upper-limit A-weighted sound power level (rounded to the nearest 0.1 B). LpAm is the mean A-weighted emission sound pressure level measured at the 1-meter bystander position (rounded to the nearest dB). 10 dB (decibel) equals 1 B (bel). All measurements are made in conformance with ISO 7779 and declared in conformance with ISO 9296. Measured at 25° Celsius at a 500 meter altitude. Product description Declared A-weighted sound power level, LWad (B) Declared A-weighted sound pressure level, LpAm (dB)   Operating   Idle Operating Idle , , and  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, and IBM rack 6.0 5.9  44 43 , , and  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, IBM rack, and low-profile PCIe riser card 6.1 6.1 42 42 , , and  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, 8 hard drives, IBM rack, and acoustic mode off 6.4 6.4 48 48 , , and  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, 8 hard drives, IBM rack, acoustic mode off, and low-profile PCI riser card 6.6 6.6 50 50 , , and  2 socket processor, 1 power supply, rack-integrated configuration, and low-profile PCI riser card 6.7 6.7 52 52 , , and  2 socket processor, 8 hard drives, 2 power supplies, IBM rack, acoustic mode off, low-profile PCI riser card, and rack acoustical doors FC 6248 or 6249. 6.1 6.1 42 42  LWad is the statistical upper-limit A-weighted sound power level (rounded to the nearest 0.1 B). LpAm is the mean A-weighted emission sound pressure level measured at the 1-meter bystander position (rounded to the nearest dB). 10 dB (decibel) equals 1 B (bel). All measurements are made in conformance with ISO 7779 and declared in conformance with ISO 9296. Measured at 25° Celsius at a 500 meter altitude. Clearances   Front Back   Left or right   Top   Operating  762 mm (30 in.) 762 mm (30 in.)     Nonoperating  762 mm (30 in.) 762 mm (30 in.) 762 mm (30 in.) 762 mm (30 in.)  CISPR 22; CISPR 24; FCC, CFR 47, Part 15 (US); VCCI (Japan); Directive 2004/108/EC (EEA); ICES-003, Issue 4 (Canada); ACMA radio communications standard (Australia, New Zealand); CNS 13438 (Taiwan); Radio Waves Act, MIC Rule No. 210 (Korea); Commodity Inspection Law (China); TCVN 7189 (Vietnam); MoCI (Saudi Arabia); SI 961 (Israel); GOST R 51318.22, 51318.24 (Russia).   IEC 60950; UL 60950; CSA 60950; EN 60950 Special Hardware Management Console considerationsWhen the server is managed by a Hardware Management Console (HMC), the console must be provided within the same room and within 8 m (26 ft) of the server. For additional considerations, see .   As an alternative to the local HMC requirement, you can provide a supported device, such as a PC, with connectivity and authority to operate through a remotely attached HMC. This local device must be in the same room and within 8 m (26 ft) of your server. It must provide functional capabilities equivalent to the HMC that it replaces, and is needed by the service representative to service the system. Parent topic:          
  ENERGY STAR® Power and Performance Data Sheet	 IBM®  System Characteristics	   Form Factor  4U	  Available Processor Sockets  2	  Available DIMM Slots / Max Memory Capacity  32 / 256 GB		  ECC and/or Fully Buffered DIMMs  Yes		 Available Expansion Slots  8 PCIe	  Minimum and Maximum # of Hard Drives  1 to 6 Redundant Power Supply Capable?  Yes		 Power Supply Make and Model  Emerson Network Power 7001490-J000		  Power Supply Output Rating* (watts)  1725		  Minimum and Maximum # of Power Supplies  2 and 2		  Input Power Range (AC or DC)  200-240 V ac		  Power Supply Efficiency at Specified Loadings*  85.3@10%, 90.7@20%, 92.3@50%, 89.2@100%		  Power Supply Power Factor at Specified Loadings*  0.861@10%, 0.941@20%, 0.986@50%, 0.997@100%		  Operating Systems Supported  AIX® 6.1L, AIX 7.1, SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 11 Service Pack 1, IBM i 7.1		  Installed Operating System for Testing AIX 6.1L System Configurations	 Minimum Typical Maximum Configuration ID FC 8355 (2x), FC 4529 (8x) FC 8355 (2x), FC 4529 (12x) FC 8355 (2x), FC 4529 (16x) Processor Information 2 x 8-core 3.55 GHz POWER7® processor card  2 x 8-core 3.55 GHz POWER7 processor card  2 x 8-core 3.55 GHz POWER7 processor card  Memory Information 16 x 8GB DIMMs, 1067 MHz, 2Gb DDR3 DRAM 24 x 8GB DIMMs, 1067 MHz, 2Gb DDR3 DRAM  32 x 8GB DIMMs, 1067 MHz, 2Gb DDR3 DRAM  Internal Storage 1 x 2.5 inch, 15 kRPM SAS    4 x 2.5 inch, 15 kRPM SAS     6 x 2.5 inch, 15 kRPM SAS   I/O Devices 1 x 4-Port 1Gb Integrated Virtual Ethernet  1 x 4-Port 1Gb Integrated Virtual Ethernet, 3 x 2-Port Fibre Channel Adapter, 1 x 4-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet 1 x 4-Port 1Gb Integrated Virtual Ethernet, 1 x GX++ Dual-port 12X Channel Adapter, 7 x 2-Port Fibre Channel Adapter, 1 x 4-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet Power Supply Number and Redundancy Configuration 2  2  2  Management Controller or Service Processor Installed? Yes  Yes  Yes  Other Hardware Features / Accessories None  DVD-ROM, HHLTO tape DVD-RAM, HHLTO tape Power Data	 Minimum Typical Maximum Idle Category  (1S and 2S only)  Category D: Managed Dual Installed Processor (2P) Servers ENERGY STAR Idle Power Allowance (1S and 2S only)  426 610 802 Measured Idle Power (watts)  304 467 569 Power at Full Load* (watts)  624 805 939 Benchmark / Method Used for Full Load Test  LINPACK		 Test Voltage and Frequency for Idle and Full Load Test  230 V 50Hz or 60Hz	 Range of Total Estimated Energy Usage ** (kWh/year)  5,326 to 10,932	 8,182 to 14,104	 9,969 to 16,451 Link to Detailed Power Calculator (if available)   http://www-912.ibm.com/see/EnergyEstimator Power and Performance for Benchmark #1 Minimum	 Typical	 Maximum Benchmark Used and Type of Workload  LINPACK		 Avg. Power Measured During Benchmark Run  624 Watts   805 Watts   939 Watts  Benchmark Performance Score  381.8 Gflops  383.9 Gflops 405.1 Gflops  Power Performance Ratio (perf score/avg. power)  0.612  0.477 0.431  Link to Full Benchmark Report (Where Available)       Power Saving Features			 Enabled on Shipment	 End-User Enabling Required Processor Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling	 No  Yes  Processor or Core Reduced Power States 	  Yes No  Power Capping	   No  Yes  Variable Speed Fan Control Based on Power or Thermal Readings	  Yes  No  Low Power Memory States	 Yes No  Low Power I/O States	  No No  Liquid Cooling Capability	  No No Other1:	 	     Other2:	      Other3:	     Other4:     Power and Temperature Measurement and Reporting Input Power Available & Accuracy? Yes, +/- 3%		  Input Air Temp Available & Accuracy?  Yes, +/- 1°C typical, +/- 2°C maximum		  Processor Utilization Available?    Yes		 		  Other Data Measurements Available & Accuracy?    Compatible Protocols for Data Collection   REST		  Averaging method and time period 30 second average, 1 second peak		 Thermal Information*	 Minimum Typical Maximum Total Power Dissipation (watts)  624.0 805.0  939.0 Delta Temperature at Exhaust at Peak Temp. (˚C)  4.4 5.7 6.6 Airflow at Maximum Fan Speed (CFM) at Peak Temp.  250.0 250.0 250.0 Airflow at Nominal Fan Speed (CFM) at Nominal Temp. 60.0 60.0 80.0 * References: ASHRAE Extended Environmental Envelope Final August 1, 2008  Thermal Guidelines for Data Processing Environments, ASHRAE, 2004, ISBN 1-931862-43-5 Peak temperature is defined as 35 ˚C, Nominal Temperature is defined as 18 - 27 ˚C  1.  SPECpower_ssj2008 is a registered trademark of the Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation (SPEC).  Benchmark results stated above reflect results published on XX/XX/XX. For the latest SPECpower_ssj2008 benchmark results, visit http://www.spec.org/power_ssj2008. Parent topic:          
 Model , , , , , and  server specifications Server specifications provide detailed information for your server, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances.  Limited configurations of the  two-processor socket servers are qualified to the EPA ENERGY STAR Computer Server requirements. The qualified configurations require a minimum of 128 GB of memory. The ENERGY STAR Power and Performance Data Sheet is provided as follows: Use the following specifications to plan for your server. Width  Depth  Height  EIA units1 Weight  440 mm (17.3 in.) 610 mm (24.0 in.) 173 mm (6.8 in.) 4 39.5 kg (87 lb ) Width  Depth Height Weight 328.5 mm (13 in.) (with tip foot)  183 mm (7.2 in.) (without tip foot) 688 mm (27.0 in. ) 541 mm (21.3 in.)  50 kg (111 lb) Width Depth Height Weight1 610 mm (24 in.) 711 mm (28 in.) 1016 mm (40 in.) 68 - 113 kg (150 - 250 lb) 1This is an estimated value. Width Depth Height Weight1 660 mm (26 in.) 737 mm (29 in.) 1016 mm (40 in.) 68 - 113 kg (150 - 250 lb) 1This is an estimated value. Width Depth Height Weight1 660 mm (26 in.) 622 mm (24.5 in.) 1016 mm (40 in.) 68 - 113 kg (150 - 250 lb) 1This is an estimated value. Electrical characteristics Properties Rated voltage and frequency1 100 - 127 V ac3 or 200 - 240 V ac at 47 - 63 Hz (, , , and ) 100 - 127 V ac, 200 - 208 V ac, and 220 - 240 V ac () 200 - 208 V ac and 220 - 240 V ac () Thermal output (maximum)2 2560 Btu/hr ( ()) 2867 Btu/hr ( ()) 3395 Btu/hr ( ()) 4778 Btu/hr ( ()) 5358 Btu/hr ( ()) 5562 Btu/hr ( ()) Maximum power consumption2 750 W ( ()) 840 W ( ()) 995 W ( ()) 1400 W ( ()) 1570 W ( ()) 1630 W ( ()) Maximum kVA4 0.765 ( ()) 0.857 ( ()) 1.015 ( ()) 1.429 ( ()) 1.602 ( ()) 1.664 ( ()) Power factor 0.98 Inrush current (maximum) 85 A (, , , and ) 12 A, 6 A, and 6 A () 9 A and 9 A () Leakage current (maximum) 0.74 mA Phase  Single Dual power feature code 2 x 5603 Branch circuit breaker 20 A maximum  Drawer mounted in  and  racks, and power distribution unit (PDU) 0298 or 0299  The power supplies automatically accept any voltage with the published, rated-voltage range. If dual power supplies are installed and operating, the power supplies draw approximately equal current from the utility (electrical supply) and provide approximately equal current to the load. Power draw and heat load vary greatly by configuration.  When planning for an electrical system, it is important to use maximum values.  However, when planning for heat load, you can use the IBM Systems Energy Estimator to obtain a heat output estimate based on a specific configuration.  See  website for more information. Power 720 servers are rated 100 - 127 V ac and 200 - 240 V ac. Power 740 servers are rated at 200 - 240 V ac. To calculate the amperage, multiply kVA by 1000 and divide that number by the operating voltage.  Environment Temperature  Recommended operating temperature  18°C - 27°C (64°F - 80°F) Allowable operating temperature 5°C - 35°C (41°F - 95°F) (Models , , , and ) 5°C - 40°C (41°F - 104°F) (Models  and ) Nonoperating temperature 5°C - 45°C (41°F - 113°F) Recommended relative humidity range 5.5°C (42°F) dew point to 60% RH and 15°C (59°F) dew point Allowable relative humidity range 20% - 80% Nonoperating relative humidity range 8% - 80%  Shipping temperature1 -40°C to 60°C (-40°F to 140°F) Shipping humidity range 5% - 100% Operating dew point 28°C (84°F)  Altitude range 0 - 3050 m (0 - 10000 ft)2 1 The maximum wet bulb temperature is 29°C (84°F).  If one or more feature codes that are listed in  are installed, then the maximum wet bulb temperature is 28°C (82°F). 2 Derate maximum dry-bulb temperature 1°C/300 m above 900 m. Feature codes (FCs) Feature code names 1738 / EQ38 856 GB (IBM i) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1752 / EQ52 900 GB (AIX/Linux) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1917 / 1866 146 GB (AIX/Linux) 15K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1925 / 1869 300 GB (AIX/Linux) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1947 / 1868 139 GB (IBM i) 15K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1948 / 1927 283 GB (IBM i) 15K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1953 / 1929 300 GB (AIX/Linux) 15K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1956 / 1844 283 GB (IBM i) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1962 / 1817 571 GB (IBM i) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) 1964 / 1818 600 GB (AIX/Linux) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) ESD2 / EQD2 1.14 TB (IBM i) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S) ESD3 / EQD3 1.2 TB (AIX/Linux) 10K RPM SAS HDD (Gen2-S)  Any feature code that is listed in this table and is installed in your system decreases the maximum wet bulb temperature that is allowed during shipping from 29°C (84°F) to 28°C (82°F).  Product description Declared A-weighted sound power level, LWad (B) Declared A-weighted sound pressure level, LpAm (dB)   Operating   Idle Operating Idle , , and  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, 2 power supplies, 6 hard drives.  5.6 5.5 40 38 , , and  single-socket processor, 2 power supplies, 6 hard drives. Stand-alone system feature code (7572)  5.6 5.5 39 37 , , and  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, 2 power supplies, low profile PCIe riser card, 6 hard drives 6.3 6.3 47 47 , , and  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, 2 power supplies, 6 hard drives, and acoustic mode off 6.5 6.5 49 49 , , and  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, 1 power supply, 6 hard drives 6.5 6.5 51 51 , , and  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, 1 power supply, 6 hard drives, and low profile PCIe riser card.  6.7 6.7 52 52  LWad is the statistical upper-limit A-weighted sound power level (rounded to the nearest 0.1 B). LpAm is the mean A-weighted emission sound pressure level measured at the 1-meter bystander position (rounded to the nearest dB). 10 dB (decibel) equals 1 B (bel). All measurements are made in conformance with ISO 7779 and declared in conformance with ISO 9296. Measured at 25° Celsius at a 500 meter altitude. Product description Declared A-weighted sound power level, LWad (B) Declared A-weighted sound pressure level, LpAm (dB)   Operating   Idle Operating Idle , , and  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, and IBM rack 6.0 5.9  44 43 , , and  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, IBM rack, and low-profile PCIe riser card 6.1 6.1 42 42 , , and  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, 8 hard drives, IBM rack, and acoustic mode off 6.4 6.4 48 48 , , and  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, 8 hard drives, IBM rack, acoustic mode off, and low-profile PCI riser card 6.6 6.6 50 50 , , and  2 socket processor, 1 power supply, rack-integrated configuration, and low-profile PCI riser card 6.7 6.7 52 52 , , and  2 socket processor, 8 hard drives, 2 power supplies, IBM rack, acoustic mode off, low-profile PCI riser card, and rack acoustical doors FC 6248 or 6249. 6.1 6.1 42 42  LWad is the statistical upper-limit A-weighted sound power level (rounded to the nearest 0.1 B). LpAm is the mean A-weighted emission sound pressure level measured at the 1-meter bystander position (rounded to the nearest dB). 10 dB (decibel) equals 1 B (bel). All measurements are made in conformance with ISO 7779 and declared in conformance with ISO 9296. Measured at 25° Celsius at a 500 meter altitude. Clearances   Front Back   Left or right   Top   Operating  762 mm (30 in.) 762 mm (30 in.)     Nonoperating  762 mm (30 in.) 762 mm (30 in.) 762 mm (30 in.) 762 mm (30 in.)  CISPR 22; CISPR 24; FCC, CFR 47, Part 15 (US); VCCI (Japan); Directive 2004/108/EC (EEA); ICES-003, Issue 4 (Canada); ACMA radio communications standard (Australia, New Zealand); CNS 13438 (Taiwan); Radio Waves Act, MIC Rule No. 210 (Korea); Commodity Inspection Law (China); TCVN 7189 (Vietnam); MoCI (Saudi Arabia); SI 961 (Israel); GOST R 51318.22, 51318.24 (Russia).   IEC 60950; UL 60950; CSA 60950; EN 60950 Special Hardware Management Console considerationsWhen the server is managed by a Hardware Management Console (HMC), the console must be provided within the same room and within 8 m (26 ft) of the server. For additional considerations, see .   As an alternative to the local HMC requirement, you can provide a supported device, such as a PC, with connectivity and authority to operate through a remotely attached HMC. This local device must be in the same room and within 8 m (26 ft) of your server. It must provide functional capabilities equivalent to the HMC that it replaces, and is needed by the service representative to service the system. Parent topic:          
  ENERGY STAR® Power and Performance Data Sheet	 IBM®  System Characteristics	   Form Factor  4U	  Available Processor Sockets  2	  Available DIMM Slots / Max Memory Capacity  32 / 512 GB		  ECC and/or Fully Buffered DIMMs  Yes		 Available Expansion Slots  9 PCIe	  Minimum and Maximum # of Hard Drives  1 to 6 Redundant Power Supply Capable?  Yes		 Power Supply Make and Model  Emerson Network Power 7001490-J000		  Power Supply Output Rating* (watts)  1725		  Minimum and Maximum # of Power Supplies  1 and 2		  Input Power Range (AC or DC)  200 - 240 V ac		  Power Supply Efficiency at Specified Loadings*  85.3@10%, 90.7@20%, 92.3@50%, 89.2@100%		  Power Supply Power Factor at Specified Loadings*  0.861@10%, 0.941@20%, 0.986@50%, 0.997@100%		  Operating Systems Supported  AIX®, IBM i, i5/OS, OS/400, Linux  Installed Operating System for Testing AIX 7.1.0.0 System Configurations	 Minimum Typical Maximum Configuration ID FC EPCB (2x), FC EM16 (8x) FC EPCB (2x), FC EM16 (12x) FC EPCB (2x), FC EM32 (16x) Processor Information 2 x 8-core 3.55 GHz POWER7® processor card  2 x 8-core 3.55 GHz POWER7 processor card  2 x 8-core 3.55 GHz POWER7 processor card  Memory Information 16 x 8GB DIMMs, 1067 MHz, 2Gb DDR3 DRAM 24 x 8GB DIMMs, 1067 MHz, 2Gb DDR3 DRAM  32 x 16GB DIMMs, 1067 MHz, 2Gb DDR3 DRAM  Internal Storage 1 x 2.5 inch, 15 kRPM SAS    3 x 2.5 inch, 15 kRPM SAS     6 x 2.5 inch, 15 kRPM SAS   I/O Devices  1 x 2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet 3 x 2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet, 1 x 2-Port Gigabit Ethernet-SX 4 x 2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet, 1 x 2-Port Gigabit Ethernet-SX, 3 x 4-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX, 2 x 2-port 4Gb Dual Port Fibre Channel Power Supply Number and Redundancy Configuration 2  2  2  Management Controller or Service Processor Installed? Yes  Yes  Yes  Other Hardware Features / Accessories DVD-RAM, LTO-5 tape DVD-RAM, LTO-5 tape DVD-RAM, LTO-5 tape Power Data	 Minimum Typical Maximum Idle Category  (1S and 2S only)  Category D: Managed Dual Installed Processor (2P) Servers ENERGY STAR Idle Power Allowance (1S and 2S only)  418 574 1282 Measured Idle Power (watts)  393 446 585 Power at Full Load* (watts)  638 704 884 Benchmark / Method Used for Full Load Test  LINPACK		 Test Voltage and Frequency for Idle and Full Load Test  230 V 50Hz or 60Hz	 Range of Total Estimated Energy Usage ** (kWh/year)  6,885 to 11,178 7,814 to 12,334 10,249 to 15,488 Link to Detailed Power Calculator (if available)   http://www-912.ibm.com/see/EnergyEstimator Power and Performance for Benchmark #1 Minimum	 Typical	 Maximum Benchmark Used and Type of Workload  LINPACK		 Avg. Power Measured During Benchmark Run  638 Watts 704 Watts 884 Watts Benchmark Performance Score  388.0 Gflops 397.4 Gflops 406.6 Gflops Power Performance Ratio (perf score/avg. power)  0.608 0.564 0.460 Link to Full Benchmark Report (Where Available)       Power Saving Features			 Enabled on Shipment	 End-User Enabling Required Processor Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling	 No  Yes  Processor or Core Reduced Power States 	  Yes No  Power Capping	   No  Yes  Variable Speed Fan Control Based on Power or Thermal Readings	  Yes  No  Low Power Memory States	 Yes No  Low Power I/O States	  No No  Liquid Cooling Capability	  No No Other1:	 	     Other2:	      Other3:	     Other4:     Power and Temperature Measurement and Reporting Input Power Available & Accuracy? Yes, +/- 3%		  Input Air Temp Available & Accuracy?  Yes, +/- 1°C typical, +/- 2°C maximum		  Processor Utilization Available?    Yes		 		  Other Data Measurements Available & Accuracy?    Compatible Protocols for Data Collection   REST		  Averaging method and time period 30 second average, 1 second peak		 Thermal Information*	 Minimum Typical Maximum Total Power Dissipation (watts)  638.0 704.0 884.0 Delta Temperature at Exhaust at Peak Temp. (˚C)  4.5 5.0 6.2 Airflow at Maximum Fan Speed (CFM) at Peak Temp.  250.0 250.0 250.0 Airflow at Nominal Fan Speed (CFM) at Nominal Temp. 60.0 60.0 80.0 * References: ASHRAE Extended Environmental Envelope Final August 1, 2008  Thermal Guidelines for Data Processing Environments, ASHRAE, 2004, ISBN 1-931862-43-5 Peak temperature is defined as 35 ˚C, Nominal Temperature is defined as 18 - 27 ˚C  1.  SPECpower_ssj2008 is a registered trademark of the Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation (SPEC).  Benchmark results stated above reflect results published on XX/XX/XX. For the latest SPECpower_ssj2008 benchmark results, visit http://www.spec.org/power_ssj2008. Parent topic:          
 Planning for HMC installation and configuration This section describes the high-level planning tasks you must perform before you install and configure your HMC.  To plan for HMC installation and configuration, do the following: Ensure that your HMC hardware meets the requirements to manage your server and obtain and install the latest HMC code. Determine the physical location of the HMC in relation to the servers it will manage. If the HMC is more than 7 meters (25 feet) from its managed system, you must provide web browser access to the HMC from the managed system's location so that service personnel can access the HMC. Identify the servers that the HMC will manage. Determine whether you will use a private or an open network to manage servers.  If you will use an open network to manage a Flexible Service Processor (FSP), you must manually set the FSP's address through the Advanced System Management Interface (ASMI) menus. A private, nonroutable network is recommended. If you have two HMCs, designate a primary and secondary HMC. The primary HMC should be physically closer to the machine, and should be the HMC that is configured to call home. Determine the network settings that you will need to connect the HMC to remote workstations, logical partitions, and network devices.  Define how the HMC will connect to use the call-home function. Call home options include over an outbound-only Secure Socket Layer (SSL) Internet connection, a modem, or a Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection. Determine the HMC users that you will create and their passwords, as well as which roles they will be given. Document the following company contact information that will be needed when you configure call home: Company name Administrator contact E-mail address Telephone numbers Fax numbers The street address of the HMC's physical location If you plan to use e-mail to notify operators or systems administrators when information is sent to  Service through call-home function, identify the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) server and the e-mail addresses you will use. Define the following passwords:The access password that will be used to authenticate the HMC to the FSP The ASMI password that will be used for the admin user The ASMI password that will be used for the general user Create the passwords when you connect from the HMC to a new server for the first time.  If the HMC is a redundant or second HMC, obtain the HMC user password and be prepared to enter it when you connect the first time to the managed server's FSP. For detailed information about the planning tasks you should complete before performing a first-time installation, see  .  The  function requires that the Hardware Management Console (HMC) must have at least 2 GB of random access memory (RAM) installed. Install the HMC hardware. To install the HMC into a rack, see . To install a stand-alone HMC, see . Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
 Preparing for  configuration Use this section to gather required configuration settings that you need to know before you begin the configuration steps.  To configure the HMC, you must understand the related concepts, make decisions and prepare information. This section describes the information you will need to connect your HMC to the following:Service processors in your managed systems Logical partitions on those managed systems Remote workstations Service, to implement “call-home” functions  Additional connectivity and security information is available. For more information, see   To prepare for HMC configuration, do the following: Obtain and install the latest level of the HMC code version you want to install.  Determine the physical location of the HMC in relation to the servers it will manage. If the HMC is more than 25 feet from its managed system, you must provide web browser access to the HMC from the managed system's location so that service personnel can access the HMC. Identify the servers that the HMC will manage. Determine whether you will use a private or an open network to manage servers.  If you decide to use a private network, use DHCP, unless you are using a Cluster Systems Management (CSM) configuration. CSM does not support IPv6. To access CSM, you must have two networks. For more information about CSM, see the documentation that was provided with that feature. For more information about private and open networks, see . If you will use an open network to manage an FSP, you must set the FSP's address manually through the Advanced System Management Interface menus. A private, non-routable network is recommended. If you have two HMCs, designate a primary and secondary HMC. The primary HMC should be physically closer to the machine, and should be the HMC that is configured to call home. Determine the network settings that you will need to connect the HMC to remote workstations, logical partitions, and network devices.  Define how the HMC will “call home.” Call home options include either over an outbound-only Secure Socket Layer (SSL) Internet connection, a modem, or a Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection. Determine the HMC users that you will create and their passwords, as well which roles they will be given. You must assign the hscroot and hscpe users a password. Document the following company contact information that will be needed when configuring call home: Company name Administrator contact Email address Telephone numbers Fax numbers The street address of the HMC's physical location If you plan to use email to notify operators or systems administrators when information is sent to IBM Service through call-home, identify the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) server and the email addresses you will use. You must define the following passwords:The access password that will be used to authenticate the HMC to the FSP The ASMI password that will be used for the  user The ASMI password that will be used for the  user Create the passwords when you connect from the HMC to a new server for the first time.  If the HMC is a redundant or second HMC, obtain the HMC User password and be prepared to enter it when connecting the first time to the managed server's FSP. When you have completed these preparation steps, complete the . Parent topic:          
 Installing your rack-mounted HMC A procedure that describes how to install the Hardware Management Console into an existing rack enclosure. To install the HMC into a rack, do the following:   If you are connecting this HMC to a new, uninstalled managed system, do not connect the managed system to a power source at this time. Configure the HMC. For more information, see . Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
 Installing the 7310-CR4 HMC into a rack This section describes how to install the 7310-CR4 HMC into a rack. This is a customer task.  If an HMC is used to manage any POWER7® processor-based system, the HMC must be a CR3, or later, model rack-mounted HMC.  The following is a rear-view of the 7310–CR4: To install the 7310-CR4 HMC into a rack, complete the following steps: Complete a parts inventory. See . Locate the rack-mounting hardware kit and the system rail assemblies that were included with your system unit.    Sliding-rail kit parts  Slide rails  Cable-management arm mounting plate  Cable-management arm  Cable-management bracket  Cable-management support bracket and security tab  Latch strikes (2)  Screws (6)  This system unit is 1 EIA unit high; you will need this information to complete the installation. You might need to complete a parts inventory. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. You might need to determine where to install the system in the rack. This section includes procedures so that you can perform these tasks. To install slide rails into the rack, use this procedure. You might need to install the  on the slide rails. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task.  You might need to install the cable-management arm. Use the procedure in this section to perform this task. Learn how to physically install your rack-mounted HMC. Parent topic:          
 Configuring the HMC for the first time Learn more about how to configure the HMC for the first time.  You can configure the HMC by using several different methods. The following procedure describes the most common way to configure the HMC.To configure the HMC, do the following steps:  ID: hscroot Password: abc123 The Guided Setup wizard opens. For more information about other ways to configure the HMC, see   Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
 Installing your stand-alone HMC Use high-level tasks to install the stand-alone (or deskside) HMC. This topic collection describes how to physically install a stand-alone HMC.   To cable your stand-alone HMC, do the following:   If you are connecting this HMC to a new, uninstalled managed system, do not connect the managed system to a power source at this time. Configure the HMC. For more information, see . Parent topic:  Related tasks:    |      
  ENERGY STAR® Power and Performance Data Sheet	 IBM®  System Characteristics	   Form Factor  4U	  Available Processor Sockets  2	  Available DIMM Slots / Max Memory Capacity  32 / 512 GB		  ECC and/or Fully Buffered DIMMs  Yes		 Available Expansion Slots  9 PCIe	  Minimum and Maximum # of Hard Drives  1 to 6 Redundant Power Supply Capable?  Yes		 Power Supply Make and Model  Emerson Network Power 7001490-J000		  Power Supply Output Rating* (watts)  1725		  Minimum and Maximum # of Power Supplies  1 and 2		  Input Power Range (AC or DC)  200 - 240 V ac		  Power Supply Efficiency at Specified Loadings*  85.3@10%, 90.7@20%, 92.3@50%, 89.2@100%		  Power Supply Power Factor at Specified Loadings*  0.861@10%, 0.941@20%, 0.986@50%, 0.997@100%		  Operating Systems Supported  AIX®, IBM i, i5/OS, OS/400, Linux  Installed Operating System for Testing AIX 7.1.0.0 System Configurations	 Minimum Typical Maximum Configuration ID FC EPCB (2x), FC EM16 (8x) FC EPCB (2x), FC EM16 (12x) FC EPCB (2x), FC EM32 (16x) Processor Information 2 x 8-core 3.55 GHz POWER7® processor card  2 x 8-core 3.55 GHz POWER7 processor card  2 x 8-core 3.55 GHz POWER7 processor card  Memory Information 16 x 8GB DIMMs, 1067 MHz, 2Gb DDR3 DRAM 24 x 8GB DIMMs, 1067 MHz, 2Gb DDR3 DRAM  32 x 16GB DIMMs, 1067 MHz, 2Gb DDR3 DRAM  Internal Storage 1 x 2.5 inch, 15 kRPM SAS    3 x 2.5 inch, 15 kRPM SAS     6 x 2.5 inch, 15 kRPM SAS   I/O Devices  1 x 2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet 3 x 2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet, 1 x 2-Port Gigabit Ethernet-SX 4 x 2-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX Ethernet, 1 x 2-Port Gigabit Ethernet-SX, 3 x 4-Port 10/100/1000 Base-TX, 2 x 2-port 4Gb Dual Port Fibre Channel Power Supply Number and Redundancy Configuration 2  2  2  Management Controller or Service Processor Installed? Yes  Yes  Yes  Other Hardware Features / Accessories DVD-RAM, LTO-5 tape DVD-RAM, LTO-5 tape DVD-RAM, LTO-5 tape Power Data	 Minimum Typical Maximum Idle Category  (1S and 2S only)  Category D: Managed Dual Installed Processor (2P) Servers ENERGY STAR Idle Power Allowance (1S and 2S only)  418 574 1282 Measured Idle Power (watts)  393 446 585 Power at Full Load* (watts)  638 704 884 Benchmark / Method Used for Full Load Test  LINPACK		 Test Voltage and Frequency for Idle and Full Load Test  230 V 50Hz or 60Hz	 Range of Total Estimated Energy Usage ** (kWh/year)  6,885 to 11,178 7,814 to 12,334 10,249 to 15,488 Link to Detailed Power Calculator (if available)   http://www-912.ibm.com/see/EnergyEstimator Power and Performance for Benchmark #1 Minimum	 Typical	 Maximum Benchmark Used and Type of Workload  LINPACK		 Avg. Power Measured During Benchmark Run  638 Watts 704 Watts 884 Watts Benchmark Performance Score  388.0 Gflops 397.4 Gflops 406.6 Gflops Power Performance Ratio (perf score/avg. power)  0.608 0.564 0.460 Link to Full Benchmark Report (Where Available)       Power Saving Features			 Enabled on Shipment	 End-User Enabling Required Processor Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling	 No  Yes  Processor or Core Reduced Power States 	  Yes No  Power Capping	   No  Yes  Variable Speed Fan Control Based on Power or Thermal Readings	  Yes  No  Low Power Memory States	 Yes No  Low Power I/O States	  No No  Liquid Cooling Capability	  No No Other1:	 	     Other2:	      Other3:	     Other4:     Power and Temperature Measurement and Reporting Input Power Available & Accuracy? Yes, +/- 3%		  Input Air Temp Available & Accuracy?  Yes, +/- 1°C typical, +/- 2°C maximum		  Processor Utilization Available?    Yes		 		  Other Data Measurements Available & Accuracy?    Compatible Protocols for Data Collection   REST		  Averaging method and time period 30 second average, 1 second peak		 Thermal Information*	 Minimum Typical Maximum Total Power Dissipation (watts)  638.0 704.0 884.0 Delta Temperature at Exhaust at Peak Temp. (˚C)  4.5 5.0 6.2 Airflow at Maximum Fan Speed (CFM) at Peak Temp.  250.0 250.0 250.0 Airflow at Nominal Fan Speed (CFM) at Nominal Temp. 60.0 60.0 80.0 * References: ASHRAE Extended Environmental Envelope Final August 1, 2008  Thermal Guidelines for Data Processing Environments, ASHRAE, 2004, ISBN 1-931862-43-5 Peak temperature is defined as 35 ˚C, Nominal Temperature is defined as 18 - 27 ˚C  1.  SPECpower_ssj2008 is a registered trademark of the Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation (SPEC).  Benchmark results stated above reflect results published on XX/XX/XX. For the latest SPECpower_ssj2008 benchmark results, visit http://www.spec.org/power_ssj2008. Parent topic:          
  (Machine Type: 8202) Technical Documentation for EU Regulation 617/2013 International Business Machines Corporation New Orchard Road Armonk, New York 10504 http://www.ibm.com/customersupport/ For more information, see . System characteristics Properties Product type Computer server Year first manufactured 2011 Power characteristics Properties Internal/external power supply efficiency Maximum power (watts)  995 W  Idle state power (watts)  229 W Sleep mode power (watts) N/A for servers Off mode power (watts) 25 W Product description Declared A-weighted sound pressure level, LpAm (dB)   Operating Idle  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, two power supplies, and six hard disk drives.  40 38  single-socket processor, two power supplies, six hard disk drives, and stand-alone system feature code (7572)  39 37  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, two power supplies, low profile PCIe riser card, and six hard disk drives 47 47  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, two power supplies, six hard disk drives, and acoustic mode off. 49 49  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, one power supply, and six hard disk drives 51 51  single-socket processor, rack-integrated configuration, one power supply, six hard disk drives, and low profile PCIe riser card.  52 52 Test parameters Properties Test voltage and frequency 230 V ac at 50 Hz or 60 Hz Total harmonic distortion of the electricity supply system The maximum harmonic content of the input voltage waveform is equal to or less than 2%. The qualification is compliant with EN 61000-3-2. Information and documentation on the instrumentation setup and circuits that are used for electrical testing ENERGY STAR Test Method for Computer Servers; ECOVA Generalized Test Protocol for Calculating the Energy Efficiency of Internal Ac-Dc and Dc-Dc Power Supplies Measurement methodology that is used to determine information in this document ENERGY STAR Servers Version 2.0 Program Requirements; ECOVA Generalized Test Protocol for Calculating the Energy Efficiency of Internal Ac-Dc and Dc-Dc Power Supplies Parent topic:          
  (Machine Type: 8205) Technical Documentation for EU Regulation 617/2013 International Business Machines Corporation New Orchard Road Armonk, New York 10504 http://www.ibm.com/customersupport/ For more information, see . System characteristics Properties Product type Computer server Year first manufactured 2010 Power characteristics Properties Internal/external power supply efficiency Maximum power (watts)  1630 W Idle state power (watts)  501 W Sleep mode power (watts) N/A for servers Off mode power (watts) 26 W  Product description Declared A-weighted sound pressure level, LpAm (dB)   Operating Idle  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, and IBM® rack 44 43  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, IBM rack, and low-profile PCIe riser card 42 42  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, 8 hard drives, IBM rack, and acoustic mode off 48 48 d  2 socket processor, 2 power supplies, 8 hard drives, IBM rack, acoustic mode off, and low-profile PCI riser card 50 50  2 socket processor, 1 power supply, rack-integrated configuration, and low-profile PCI riser card 52 52  2 socket processor, 8 hard drives, 2 power supplies, IBM rack, acoustic mode off, low-profile PCI riser card, and rack acoustical doors FC 6248 or 6249. 42 42 Test parameters Properties Test voltage and frequency 230 V ac at 50 Hz or 60 Hz Total harmonic distortion of the electricity supply system The maximum harmonic content of the input voltage waveform is equal to or less than 2%. The qualification is compliant with EN 61000-3-2. Information and documentation on the instrumentation setup and circuits that are used for electrical testing ENERGY STAR Test Method for Computer Servers; ECOVA Generalized Test Protocol for Calculating the Energy Efficiency of Internal Ac-Dc and Dc-Dc Power Supplies Measurement methodology that is used to determine information in this document ENERGY STAR Servers Version 2.0 Program Requirements; ECOVA Generalized Test Protocol for Calculating the Energy Efficiency of Internal Ac-Dc and Dc-Dc Power Supplies Parent topic:          
 Server specifications Server specifications provide detailed information for your server, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Select the appropriate models to view the specifications for your server. Server specifications provide detailed information for your server, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances.  Dimensional planning information is shown in this top-down view of your server. Parent topic:          
 Plan view for model , , , , , and   Dimensional planning information is shown in this top-down view of your server. The following figure shows dimensional planning information for model , , , , , and . Parent topic:          
 Hardware specification sheets Hardware specification sheets provide detailed information for your hardware, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Server specifications provide detailed information for your server, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Expansion unit and migration tower specifications provide detailed information for your hardware, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Rack specifications provide detailed information for your rack, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Hardware Management Console (HMC) specifications provide detailed information for your HMC, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances.  () specifications provide detailed information for your , including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Rack switch specifications provide detailed information for your IBM BNT® RackSwitch™, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Learn the requirements and specifications for installing  systems into racks . Parent topic:          
 Expansion unit and migration tower specifications Expansion unit and migration tower specifications provide detailed information for your hardware, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Select a model to view its specifications. Hardware specifications provide detailed information for your expansion unit, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Hardware specifications provide detailed information for your expansion unit, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Hardware specifications provide detailed information for your expansion unit, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Hardware specifications provide detailed information for your expansion unit, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Hardware specifications provide detailed information for your expansion unit, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Hardware specifications provide detailed information for your expansion unit, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Hardware specifications provide detailed information for your expansion unit, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Hardware specifications provide detailed information for your expansion unit, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Hardware specifications provide detailed information for your rack. This includes dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:  Parent topic:          
  expansion unit Hardware specifications provide detailed information for your expansion unit, including dimensions, electrical, power, temperature, environment, and service clearances. Width  Depth  Height  Maximum configuration weight 447 mm (17.5 in.) 660 mm (26 in.) 171 mm (6.75 in.) 54 kg (120 lb) Width  Depth  Height  Maximum configuration weight 305 mm (12.0 in.) 655 mm (26.0 in.) 508 mm (20.0 in.) 66 kg (145 lb) Electrical characteristics Properties kVA 0.740  Rated voltage and frequency    100 - 127 V ac at 50 - 60 Hz plus or minus 3 Hz and 12 A 200 - 240 V ac at 50 - 60 Hz plus or minus 3 Hz and 6.2 A  Machine rating with two redundant power cords Maximum thermal output  2382 Btu/hr Maximum power requirements1   700 W  Power factor    0.95  Inrush current   55 A per power cord Maximum leakage current  3.10 mA Phase   1 1All measurements made in conformance with ISO 7779 and declared in conformance with ISO 9296. Operating    Nonoperating   10°C - 38°C (50°F - 100.4°F)1 -40°C to 60°C  (-40°F to 140°F) 1The maximum 38°C (100.4°F) temperature must be derated 1°C (1.8°F) per 137 m (450 ft) above 1295 m (4250 ft). Maximum altitude is 2134 m (7000 ft).  Properties Operating Nonoperating  Maximum altitude Noncondensing Humidity    20 - 80% (allowable) 40 - 55% (recommended) 8 - 80% (including condensing) 2134 m (7000 ft) above sea level  Wet bulb temperature    21°C (69.8°F) 27°C (80.6°F) Models Properties Operating Idle   LWAd  6.6 Bels  6.5 Bels Single  drawer in standard 19-inch rack with 24 hard drives, nominal environmental conditions, and no front or rear doors on rack. LpAm (1-meter bystander)  49 dB  49 dB 1All measurements made in conformance with ISO 7779 and declared in conformance with ISO 9296. Front Back Sides1 914 mm (36 in.) 914 mm (36 in.) 914 mm (36 in.) 1Side and top clearances are optional during operation. Front Back 368.3 mm (14.5 in.) 381 mm (15 in.)  This hardware is designed and certified to meet the following safety standards: UL 60950; CAN/CSA C22.2 No. 60950–00; EN 60950; IEC 60950 including all National Differences Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Acoustics Acoustic noise emission data allows you to assess noise levels for your data processing equipment. Acoustic noise emission data  is provided for the benefit of installation planners and consultants to help predict acoustical noise levels in data centers and other installations of information technology and telecommunications equipment.  Such noise declarations also allow you to compare noise levels of one product to another and to compare the levels to any applicable specifications. The format of the data provided conforms to ISO 9296: Acoustics - Declared Noise Emission Values of Computer and Business Equipment. The measurement procedures used to acquire the data conform to International Standard ISO 7779 and its American National Standard equivalent ANSI S12.10.  The following terms are used to present acoustical data. LWAd is the declared (upper limit) A-weighted sound power level for a random sample of machines. LpAm is the mean value of the A-weighted sound pressure levels either at the operator position or at the bystander (1-meter) positions for a random sample of machines. <LpA>m is the mean value of the space-averaged sound-pressure-emission levels at the one-meter positions for a random sample of machines. Acoustical treatment of data centers or other rooms, in which the equipment is installed, is recommended to achieve lower noise levels. Lower noise levels tend to enhance employee productivity and avoid mental fatigue, improve communications, reduce employee complaints, and generally improve employee comfort. Proper room design, including the use of acoustical treatment, might require the services of a specialist in acoustics. The total noise level of an installation with information technology and telecommunications equipment is an accumulation of all the noise sources in the room. This level is affected by the physical arrangement of the products on the floor, the sound reflective (or absorptive) characteristics of the room surfaces, and the noise from other data center support equipment such as air conditioning units and backup power equipment. Noise levels might be reduced with proper spacing and orientation of the various noise-emitting equipment. Provide sufficient space around such machines:  the farther apart they can be placed, the lower the overall room noise will be. In smaller installations, such as small offices and general business areas, pay additional attention to the location of equipment relative to the work areas of the employees. At work areas, consider locating personal computers and computer workstations next to the desk rather than on top of it. Small servers should be located as far away from personnel as possible.  Locate nearby work areas away from the exhaust of computer equipment. The use of absorptive materials can reduce the overall noise level in most installations. Effective and economical sound reduction can be achieved by using a sound-absorptive ceiling. The use of acoustically absorbing free-standing barriers can reduce the direct noise, increase room absorption and provide privacy. The use of absorptive material, such as carpeting on the floor, results in further reduction of the sound level in the room. Any carpeting used in a computer room must meet the electrical continuity requirements stated in Static electricity and floor resistance. To prevent computer room noise from reaching adjacent office areas, walls should be constructed from the structural floor to the structural ceiling. Also, ensure that doors and walls are properly sealed. Acoustical treatment of overhead ducts might further reduce noise transmitted to or from other rooms. Many  large systems products are offered with optional acoustical front and rear doors to help attenuate the noise of the product itself. Smaller  products might also offer special acoustical packages. If noise exposure is a concern for the installation planners or employees, inquiries should be made to   on the availability of such product options. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Site preparation and physical planning These guidelines help you prepare your site for the delivery and installation of your server. The selection of a site for information technology equipment is the first consideration in planning and preparing for the installation. Determine whether a new site is to be constructed or alterations are to be performed on an existing site. Define an access route from your loading dock to your data processing area before delivery of your server. Use these guidelines to minimize static electricity buildup in your data center. The floor area required for the equipment is determined by the specific servers to be installed, the location of columns, floor loading capacity, and provisions for future expansion. Calculate the floor loads for your server with these formulas. Learn how a raised floor environment improves data center operational efficiency. Historically, cabling (power or signal) for computer systems has been done within a rack or under a raised floor. There has been growing customer interest in using nonraised floors, requiring some or all of the cabling to be overhead.  Effective computer room layout is dependent on several important factors. Use this information to plan for possible vibration and shock in your data center. Proper lighting is required to normally operate the server and when service is required. Acoustic noise emission data allows you to assess noise levels for your data processing equipment. Use this information to plan for server installation in an environment that has a high electomagnetic-radiated field. Computer room location is affected by several factors. Special safety considerations are required when storing data or other material.  Planning for emergencies ensures that your data center continues to operate in the event of a power outage. Reliable electrical power is required for the proper functioning of your data processing equipment. The air conditioning system must provide year-round temperature and humidity control as a result of the heat dissipated during equipment operation.  Use these environmental design criteria to ensure that your data center environment provides optimal conditions for your server operation. Temperature and humidity recording instruments should be installed to provide a continuous record of the environmental conditions.  Shipment or storage conditions that exceed the specified limits can cause permanent damage to your server. These guidelines should be followed when relocating or temporarily storing your server. Server and storage equipment must be acclimated to the surrounding environment to prevent condensation. Careful attention should be given to the method of air distribution to eliminate areas of excessive air motion and hot spots. Use this information to prepare your location to facilitate the use of the  rear door heat exchanger. Your installation requires a variety of communication equipment to support the computer installation. Telephone lines, fax lines, and the remote support facility (RSF) are just some of the types of communications that you will need to have installed.         
 Site selection The selection of a site for information technology equipment is the first consideration in planning and preparing for the installation. Determine whether a new site is to be constructed or alterations are to be performed on an existing site. This section provides specific information on building location, structure, and space requirements for present and future needs. UtilitiesPower and communication facilities must be available in the quantities required for operation. If these are inadequate, contact the utility company to determine if additional services can be made available.    Exposure to hazardsPollution, flooding, radio or radar interference, and hazards caused by nearby industries can cause problems to information technology equipment and recorded media. Any indication of exposure in these areas should be recognized and included in the planning of the installation. Parent topic:          
 Access Define an access route from your loading dock to your data processing area before delivery of your server. A preliminary check of the building will show if adequate access for the normal delivery of supplies and servers exists. A small alley, a narrow door opening, or limited access to the delivery area can become inhibitive to installation. The loading dock, passageways, and elevators should be able to accommodate heavy, oversized data processing support equipment such as air conditioning equipment. Access routeDefine an access route from the loading dock to the data processing area. A small alley (cannot accommodate delivery truck), a narrow door opening <914 mm (<36 in.), low height 2032 mm (<80 in.), or limited access to the delivery area can become inconvenient during the delivery process. If the heights of the truck bed and the dock surface do not match,  the ramp angle should be such that the machine frame does not bottom out while taking it from the truck bed to the dock surface.  Within your site, ramps from hallways to computer-room floors should conform to the American Disabilities Acts (ADA). The ADA requirement states that the ramp should have a 1:12 relationship. For each inch of vertical height of the raised floor, one foot of ramp length should be provided. As an example, if the raised floor height is 304.8 mm (12 in.), then the ramp length should be 3.66 m (12 ft). The ramps should also be strong enough to support the weight of the server while it is being moved over the surface. The hallways and doors should be wide enough and high enough to allow passage of the server, and ensure adequate turning radius in the hallway. The overhead clearance to pipes and ducts must be sufficient to allow movement of computer equipment, air conditioners, and electrical equipment. Most standard passenger elevators are rated for 1134 kg (2500 lb). Selected information technology equipment, and some site infrastructure equipment such as air conditioning units might exceed 1134 kg (2500 lb). Access to a freight elevator with a minimum rating of 1587 kg (3500 lb) is recommended.  Review the access route from the loading dock to the computer room to prevent problems when moving the frames. Consider making a cardboard template to check the access route for height, width, and length interference. Employ qualified experts if special rigging is required to get the server from the loading dock to the computer room.   Because the dynamic loads of rolling frames are higher than the static loads of stationary frames, floor protection is required at delivery time. It is also important to consider the caster point loads. Some floors cannot withstand the force exerted by the casters of heavier systems. For example, caster point loads on some servers can be as high as 455 kg (1,000 lb). This can penetrate, or otherwise damage, the surface of some floors.  It is also important to protect the raised floor from damage when moving servers or relocating processors in the computer room. Ten mm (3/8 in.) plywood sheeting provides adequate protection. For some of the heavier high-end servers, it is recommended that you use tempered masonite or plyron. Plywood might be too soft for the heavier servers. Delivery and subsequent transportation of the equipment DANGERHeavy equipment—personal injury or equipment damage might result if mishandled. (D006) You must prepare your environment to accept the new product based on the installation planning information provided, with assistance from an  authorized service provider. In anticipation of the equipment delivery, prepare the final installation site in advance so that professional movers or riggers can transport the equipment to the final installation site within the computer room.  If for some reason, this is not possible at the time of delivery, you must make arrangements to have professional movers or riggers return to finish the transportation at a later date. Only professional movers or riggers should transport the equipment. The  authorized service provider can only perform minimal frame repositioning within the computer room, as needed, to perform required service actions.  You are also responsible for using professional movers or riggers when you relocate or dispose of equipment. Parent topic:          
 Static electricity and floor resistance Use these guidelines to minimize static electricity buildup in your data center. Floor covering material can contribute to buildup of high static electrical charges as a result of the motion of people, carts, and furniture in contact with the floor material. Abrupt discharge of the static charges causes discomfort to personnel and might cause malfunction of electronic equipment. Static buildup and discharge can be minimized by: Maintaining the relative humidity of the room within the server operating limits. Choose a control point that normally keeps the humidity between 35 percent and 60 percent. See the Air conditioning determination for further guidance. Providing a conductive path to ground from a metallic raised floor structure including the metal panels. Grounding the raised floor metallic support structure (stringer, pedestals) to building steel at several places within the room. The number of ground points is based on the size of the room. The larger the room, the more ground points are required. Ensuring the maximum resistance for the flooring system is 2 x 1010 ohms, measured between the floor surface and the building (or an applicable ground reference). Flooring material with a lower resistance will further decrease static buildup and discharge. For safety, the floor covering and flooring system should provide a resistance of no less than 150 kilohms when measured between any two points on the floor space 1 m (3 ft) apart. Maintenance of antistatic floor coverings (carpet and tile) should be in agreement with the individual supplier's recommendations. Carpeted floor coverings must meet electrical conductivity requirements. Use only antistatic materials with low-propensity ratings. Using ESD-resistant furniture with conductive casters to prevent static buildup. Measuring floor resistanceThe following equipment is required for measuring floor resistance:     A test instrument similar to an AEMC-1000 megohmmeter is required for measuring floor conductivity. The following figure shows the typical test connection to measure floor conductivity. Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Air conditioning determination The air conditioning system must provide year-round temperature and humidity control as a result of the heat dissipated during equipment operation.  Heat dissipation ratings are given in the server specifications for each server. Air conditioning units should not be powered from the computer power panel because of the high starting current drawn by their compressor units. The feeder line for the air conditioning system and the computer room power should not be in the same conduit.    Consider the following factors when determining the air conditioning capacity necessary for installation:               Information technology equipment heat dissipation Number of personnel Lighting requirements Amount of fresh air introduced Possible reheating of circulated air Heat conduction through outer walls and windows  Ceiling height Area of floors Number and placement of door openings Number and height of partitions Most servers are air-cooled by internal blowers. A separate air conditioning system is recommended for data processing installation. A separate system might be required for small systems or individual servers intended for operation when the building air conditioning system is not adequate or is not operational. Server heat dissipation loads are given on the server specifications for each server. See the environmental requirements in the server specifications for your server.  Use these general guidelines to set up your data center. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 General guidelines for data centers Use these general guidelines to set up your data center. Refer to the latest ASHRAE publication, "Thermal Guidelines for Data Processing Environments", dated January, 2004. This document can be purchased online at ashrae.org. A dedicated section outlines a detailed procedure for assessing the overall cooling health of the data center and optimizing for maximum cooling.   Server and storage considerationsMost  servers and storage products are designed to pull chilled air through the front of the server and exhaust hot air out of the back.  The most important requirement is to ensure that the inlet air temperature to the front of the equipment does not exceed  environmental specifications.  See the environmental requirements in the server specifications or hardware specification sheets.  Make sure that the air inlet and exit areas are not blocked by paper, cables, or other obstructions.  When upgrading or repairing your server, be sure not to exceed, if specified, the maximum allowed time for having the cover removed with the unit running.  After your work is completed, be sure to reinstall all fans, heat sinks, air baffles, and other devices per documentation. 	  Manufacturers are reporting heat loads in a format suggested by the ASHRAE publication, "Thermal Guidelines for Data Processing Environments", dated January, 2004.  Although this data is meant to be used to for heat load balancing, care is required when using the data to balance cooling supply and demand as many applications are transient and do not dissipate constant rates of heat.  A thorough understanding of how the equipment and application behave with regard to heat load, including considerations for future growth, is required.   Rack or cabinet considerations Racks are used throughout this section to also mean cabinets, frames, and any other commonly used term to identify the unit that houses rack-mounted equipment.  19-inch racks are designed to allow maximum airflow through the equipment installed in the rack.  Chilled air is pulled through the front and exhausted through the rear by the fans in the rack-mounted equipment.  Most  racks come with a perforated rear door and an optional front door that is perforated.  Some racks have optional acoustical treatment to reduce the noise emissions from the rack.  If  racks are used, solid doors or doors with significant amounts of decorative glass are not recommended as these will not allow sufficient air to flow into and out of the rack.   Recirculation of hot air exiting the back of the rack into the front of the rack must be eliminated.  There are two actions that can be taken to prevent air recirculation.  First, filler or blanking panels must fill all unoccupied rack space that is not occupied by equipment shipped in rack.  1U and 3U filler panels are used to block air recirculation within the rack.  If you do not have filler panels installed in your rack, these are available from . Index number FRU part number Units per assembly Description 1 97H9754 As needed 1U Filler snap (black) 62X3443 As needed 1U Filler snap (white) 2 97H9755 As needed 3U Filler snap (black) 62X3444 As needed 3U Filler snap (white) 3 12J4072 As needed 1U Filler snap (black) 4 12J4073 As needed 3U Filler snap (black) 5 74F1823 2 per Item 3 M5 Nut clip 74F1823 4 per Item 4 M5 Nut clip 6 1624779 2 per Item 3 M5 X 14 Hex flange 1624779 4 per Item 4 M5 X 14 Hex flange Second, allow proper operating clearance around all racks.  See the clearance requirements in the server specifications or hardware specification sheets.  The floor layout should not allow the hot air exhaust from the back of one rack to enter the front air inlet of another rack.   Finally, proper cable management is another important element of maximizing the airflow through the rack. Cables must be routed and tied down in such a way that they do not impede the movement of air into or out of the rack.  Such impedance could significantly reduce the volumetric flow of air through the equipment.   Use a fan-assisted rack or cabinet with caution.  Depending upon how much equipment is installed in the cabinet, the air movers in the cabinet may limit the amount of flow to less than what is required by the equipment. Room considerationsData centers designed and built in the last 10 years are typically capable of cooling up to 3KW of heat load per cabinet.  These designs often involve raised floor air distribution plenums 18 to 24 inches in height, room ceiling heights of 8 to 9 feet, and Computer Room Air Conditioning (CRAC) units distributed around the perimeter of the room.  IT equipment occupies roughly 30-35% of the total data center space.  The remaining space is white space (for example, access aisles, service clearances), power distribution units (PDUs), and CRAC units. Until recently, little attention has been given to heat load assessments, equipment layout and air delivery paths, heat load distribution, and floor tile placement and openings.   Assessing the total heat load of your installationA total heat load assessment should be conducted to determine your overall environment balance point.  The purpose of the assessment is to see if you have enough sensible cooling, including redundancy, to handle the heat load that you plan to install or have installed.  There are several ways to perform this assessment, but the most common is to review the heat load and cooling in logical sections defined by I-beams, airflow blockages, or CRAC unit locations.   Equipment layout and air delivery pathsThe hot-aisle, cold-aisle arrangement that is explained in the ASHRAE publication, "Thermal Guidelines for Data Processing Environments", dated January, 2004, should be used. In the following figure, racks within the data center are arranged such that there are cold aisles and hot aisles.  The cold aisle consists of perforated floor tiles separating two rows of racks.  The chilled air from the perforated floor tiles is exhausted from the tiles and is drawn into the fronts of the racks.  The inlets of each rack (front of each rack) face the cold aisle.  This arrangement allows the hot air exhausting the rear of the racks to return to the CRAC units; thus, minimizing hot exhaust air from the rack circulating back into the inlets of the racks.  CRAC units are placed at the end of the hot aisles to facilitate the return of the hot air to the CRAC unit and maximize static pressure to the cold aisle. The key to heat load management of the data center is to provide inlet air temperatures to the rack that meet the manufacturer's specifications.  Because the chilled air exhausting from the perforated tiles in the cold aisle may not satisfy the total chilled airflow required by the rack, additional flow will be drawn from other areas of the raised floor and may not be chilled.  See the following figure.  In many cases, the airflow drawn into the top of the rack, after the bottom of the rack has been satisfied, will be a mixture of hot air from the rear of the system and air from other areas.   For those racks that are at the ends of a row, the hot airflow that exhausts from the rear of the rack and migrate to the front around the sides of the rack.  These flow patterns have been observed in actual data centers and in flow modeling. For a data center that may not have the best chilled-air-flow distribution, the following figure gives guidance in providing adequate chilled airflow given a specific heat load.  The chart takes into account worst-case locations in a data center and are the requirements to meet the maximum temperature specifications required by most high-end equipment. Altitude corrections are noted on the bottom portion of the chart. The most common methods for delivering supply air to the racks can be found in System air distribution. Heat load distributionIncreased performance capabilities and the accompanying heat load demands have caused data centers to have hot spots in the vicinity of heat loads that exceed 3KW.  Facility owners are discovering that it is becoming increasingly difficult to plan cooling schemes for large-scale deployments of high-heat-load equipment.  Essentially, two different approaches can be undertaken for a large-scale, high-end server or storage deployment:   Provide ample cooling for maximum heat load requirements across the entire data center. Provide an average amount of cooling across the data center with the capability to increase cooling in limited, local areas. Option 1 is very expensive and more conducive to new construction.  For option 2, a number of things can be done to optimize cooling in existing data centers and possibly raise the cooling capability in limited sections.   One recommendation is to place floor tiles with high percent-open and flow ratings in front of the high-end racks.   Another recommendation is to provide special means for removing hot exhaust air from the backs of the high-end racks immediately, before it has a chance to migrate back to the air intakes on racks in other parts of the room.  This could be accomplished by installing special baffling or direct ducting back to the air returns on the CRAC units.  Careful engineering is required to ensure that any recommendation does not have an adverse effect on the dynamics of the underfloor static pressure and airflow distribution. In centers where floor space is not an issue, it would be most practical to design the entire raised floor to a constant level of cooling and depopulate racks or observe a greater distance between racks in order to meet the per-cabinet capability of the floor.   Floor tile placement and openingsPerforated tiles should be placed exclusively in the cold aisles, aligned with the intakes of the equipment.  No perforated tiles should be placed in the hot aisles, no matter how uncomfortably hot.  Hot aisles are, by design, supposed to be hot.  Placement of open tiles in the hot aisle artificially decreases the return air temperature to the CRAC units, thereby reducing their efficiency and available capacity.  This phenomenon contributes to hot spot problems in the data center.  Perforated tiles should not be placed in too close proximity to the CRAC units.  In areas under the raised floor where air velocities exceed about 530 feet-per-minute, usually within about six tiles of the unit discharges, a Venturi effect may be created where room air will be sucked downward into the raised floor, opposite of the desired result of upward chilled air delivery.   The volumetric flow capabilities of floor tiles with various percent-open ratings are shown in the following figure.  Floor tiles in typical data centers deliver between 100 and 300 cfm.  By optimizing the flow utilizing some of the guidelines set forth in this document, it may be possible to realize flows as high as 500 cfm. Flow rates as high as 700-800 cfm per tile are possible with tiles with the highest percent-open rating. Floor tiles must be aligned in the cold aisles with the intake locations on the equipment. Openings in the raised-floor that are not there for the purpose of delivering chilled air directly to the equipment in the data center space should be completely sealed with brush assemblies or other cable opening material (for example, foam sheeting, fire pillows).  Other openings that must be sealed are holes in data center perimeter walls, underfloor, and ceiling.  Sealing all openings will help maximize under-floor static pressure, ensure optimal airflow to the cold aisles where it is needed, and eliminate short-circuiting of unused air to the CRAC unit returns. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related information:         
 System air distribution Careful attention should be given to the method of air distribution to eliminate areas of excessive air motion and hot spots. Regardless of the type of system, it should use predominantly recirculated air with a set minimum of fresh air for personnel. This helps eliminate the introduction of dust, reduces the latent load, and allows the system to carry on a sensible cooling operation. The various methods of air distribution and computer room air conditioning (CRAC) are shown in the following figures. In general you should ensure that the design supply and return air temperatures are within the manufacturer's specifications for CRAC units. Underfloor air distributionIn underfloor air distribution, the space between the regular building floor and the raised floor is used as a means to supply air for equipment cooling (see the following figure).  Concrete subfloors might require treatment to prevent the release of dust. Air is discharged into the room through perforated panel floor registers. The air is returned directly to the air conditioning system or by means of a ceiling return system. Remove obsolete cabling (as required in the United States National Electrical Code) and seal all raised-floor openings that are not specifically intended to supply cool air to equipment intakes. A higher return air temperature can be tolerated in underfloor air distribution without affecting the design conditions of the overall room. The underfloor design takes into consideration a heat transfer factor through the raised metal floor and also provides some reheated air to control the relative humidity before it enters the room.    A temperature control system would consist of the same controls as described for the single duct system. In addition, the system must have controls for air temperature in the under floor supply system to prevent under floor temperatures from getting below the room dew point. Air entering the server through the cable holes must be within operating limits. (See Temperature and humidity design criteria).   Combination overhead and under floor systemFor a combination overhead and under floor air circulation design, the primary air conditioning unit is inside the room and the secondary air conditioning unit is outside the room. See following figure. An air handler, with separate controls, supplies conditioned and filtered air to the area under the raised floor. The air is discharged into the room through floor panels or registers. This air absorbs the heat generated by the server and is discharged from the top or rear of the servers into the room. The relative humidity of the air supplied to the information technology equipment should be below 80 percent and the temperature should be controlled to prevent condensation on or within the servers. It might be necessary to provide for a reheating system to operate with the cooling unit to control relative humidity.    The second air handling system supplies air directly to the room through a separate supply system and should be large enough to absorb the remaining heat load in the computer room. It should maintain room temperature and relative humidity as specified and give continuous air conditioning and ventilation. Overhead air circulationIn overhead air circulation, the entire heat load of the room or area, including the heat generated by the information technology equipment, is absorbed by the air supplied to the computer room and the area diffuser system or by a pressurized ceiling supply.  The air returned to the air conditioning system is from either ceiling return registers above the heat-producing servers, or from a fixed pattern of return registers both in the ceiling and on the walls of the room. The following figure shows an overhead air circulation system. To maximize the cooling capability of such an arrangement, it is imperative to align the supply discharges with the cold aisles and the return grilles with the hot aisles. The supply discharges should force air directly down into the cold aisles and not use diffusers that distribute air laterally. Such diffusion can cause cool air to migrate undesirably into the return air path prior to having the opportunity to transfer heat from the equipment. A temperature control system should consist of temperature and humidity controls. These controls should be placed in a representative location within the machine room. The temperature and humidity recorder (described in Temperature and humidity design criteria) should be mounted next to the controls to monitor conditions.   Air filtrationA high efficiency filter should be installed to filter all air supplied to the computer room. Because mechanical and electrostatic air cleaners operate on different principles, a different rating is specified for each type. Ratings are determined by using the test methods outlined in the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard No. 52-76 (or national equivalent). Special air filtration is necessary where installations are exposed to corrosive gases, salt air, or unusual dirt or dust conditions.   Mechanical air filters must be rated at a minimum initial atmospheric dust-spot efficiency of 40 percent.  Electrostatic air filters are designed to operate at 85 to 90 percent efficiency at a given face velocity. The filter must be operated in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendation to prevent bypass and ozone buildup, which can be detrimental to certain servers.   Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Environmental design criteria Use these environmental design criteria to ensure that your data center environment provides optimal conditions for your server operation. The following environmental specifications are based on an altitude 1800 m (5906 ft above sea level).  Some systems have more restrictive requirements on temperature, moisture, and altitude.  For more information, see the individual system specifications. Airborne particulates (including metal flakes or particles) and reactive gases acting alone or in combination with other environmental factors such as humidity or temperature might pose a risk to the server. Risks that are posed by the presence of excessive particulate levels or concentrations of harmful gases include damage that might cause the server to malfunction or cease functioning altogether. The environmental specifications set forth limits for particulates and gases that are intended to avoid such damage. The limits must not be viewed or used as definitive limits because numerous other factors, such as temperature or moisture content of the air, can influence the impact of particulates or environmental corrosives and gaseous contaminant transfer. In the absence of specific limits that are set forth in the environmental specifications, you must implement practices that maintain particulate or gas levels that are consistent with the protection of human health and safety.  Temperature 18°C (64.4°F) – 27°C (80.6°F)4 Low-end moisture 5.5°C (41.9°F) dew point High-end moisture 60% relative humidity or 15°C (59°F) dew point Gaseous contamination Severity level G1 as per ANSI/ISA 71.04-19852, which states that the reactivity rate of copper coupons shall be less than 300 Angstroms per month (Å/month, ≈ 0.0039 μg/cm2-hour weight gain).6 In addition, the reactivity rate of silver coupons shall be less than 300Å/month (≈ 0.0035 μg/cm2-hour weight gain).7 The reactive monitoring of gaseous corrosivity should be conducted approximately 5 cm (2 in.) in front of the rack on the air inlet side at one-quarter and three-quarter frame height off the floor or where the air velocity is much higher.   Particulate contamination Data centers must meet the cleanliness level of ISO 14644-1 class 8. For data centers without airside economizer, the ISO 14644-1 class 8 cleanliness might be met simply by the choice of the following filtration:The room air might be continuously filtered with MERV 8 filters. Air entering a data center might be filtered with MERV 11 or preferably MERV 13 filters. For data centers with airside economizers, the choice of filters to achieve ISO class 8 cleanliness depends on the specific conditions present at that data center.  The deliquescent relative humidity of the particulate contamination should be more than 60% RH.3  Data centers must be free of zinc whiskers.8  The class 1 and class 2 temperature and moisture limits, measured at the IT equipment air inlet, are from ASHRAE Thermal Guidelines for Data Processing Environments, second edition (2009).  Maximum recommended ambient temperature reduces 1°C (1.8°F) for every 300 m (984 ft) over 1800 m (5906 ft). The ASHRAE class 1 allowable ranges are 15°C – 32°C, 20% – 80% relative humidity, and the class 2 allowable ranges are 10°C – 35°C, 20% – 80% relative humidity.  For extended periods of time, IT manufacturers recommend that data center operators maintain the recommended environment for maximum reliability. The allowable environment is where IT manufacturers test their equipment operation in order to verify that the equipment operates. This is not a statement of reliability, but one of functional IT equipment. ANSI/ISA-S71.04. 1985. Environmental conditions for process measurement and control systems: Airborne contaminants, Instrument Society of America, Research Triangle Park, NC, 1985. The deliquescent relative humidity of particulate contamination is the relative humidity at which the dust absorbs enough water to become wet and promote ionic conduction. For ambient temperatures exceeding 25°C (77°F), the acoustical noise levels of the system might increase as the speed of the air moving devices increases.  For acclimation considerations of IT equipment, see .  The derivation of the equivalence between the rate of copper corrosion product thickness growth in Å/month and the rate of weight gain assumes that Cu2S and Cu2O grow in equal proportions. The derivation of the equivalence between the rate of silver corrosion product thickness growth in Å/month and the rate of weight gain assumes that Ag2S is the only corrosion product. Surface debris is randomly collected from 10 areas of the data center on a 1.5 cm diameter disk of sticky electrically conductive tape on a metal stub. If examination of the sticky tape in a scanning electron microscope reveals no zinc whiskers, the data center is considered free of zinc whiskers. Temperature 5°C (41°F) – 45°C (113°F) Relative humidity 8% – 80% Dew point Less than 27°C (81°F) Gaseous contamination Severity level G1 as per ANSI/ISA 71.04-19851, which states that the reactivity rate of copper coupons shall be less than 300 Angstroms per month (Å/month, ≈ 0.0039 μg/cm2-hour weight gain).3 In addition, the reactivity rate of silver coupons shall be less than 300Å/month (≈ 0.0035 μg/cm2-hour weight gain).4 The reactive monitoring of gaseous corrosivity should be conducted approximately 2 in. (5 cm) in front of the rack on the air inlet side at one-quarter and three-quarter frame height off the floor or where the air velocity is much higher.  ANSI/ISA-S71.04. 1985. Environmental conditions for process measurement and control systems: Airborne contaminants, Instrument Society of America, Research Triangle Park, NC, 1985. For acclimation considerations of IT equipment, see .  The derivation of the equivalence between the rate of copper corrosion product thickness growth in Å/month and the rate of weight gain assumes that Cu2S and Cu2O grow in equal proportions. The derivation of the equivalence between the rate of silver corrosion product thickness growth in Å/month and the rate of weight gain assumes that Ag2S is the only corrosion product.   Shipping environment Storage environment Temperature -40°C to 60°C (-40°F to 140°F) 1°C – 60°C (33.8°F - 140°F) Relative humidity 5% – 100%  (no condensation) 5% – 80%  (no condensation) Wet bulb Less than 29°C (84.2°F) Less than 29°C (84.2°F) Shipping package  Vapor barrier bag with desiccant  Vapor barrier bag with desiccant  Solid-state drives (SSD) have the following restrictive limits for data retention: Do not exceed 60°C (140°F).  Do not store at 60°C (140°F) or more for over 30 days when new. Do not store at 37.8°C (100°F) or more for over 180 days when new. Do not store at 60°C (140°F) or more for over 6 days when relocating (cumulative time at the specified temperature). Do not store at 37.8°C (100°F) or more for over 90 days when relocating.  Ensure that you backup your data first, if applicable, before shipping. Air qualityMany systems are installed in environments other than the typical data center, business office, or clean industrial location. These environments might exhibit various temperatures, relative humidity, and levels of airborne particles or corrosive gases.  systems are designed to work within the environmental specifications shown in the previous tables unless otherwise noted on an individual system specification. An environment is considered unacceptable when the temperature, relative humidity, corrosive gases, or solid particles in the air exceed specific limits set by IBM.  Equipment that operates in environments classified as unacceptable might be subject to degraded performance and permanent damage if the equipment is not designed for such environments. ContaminantsSystems are being installed in increasingly diversified industries.  Some of these industries, as a by-product of their processes, cause the atmosphere to contain measurable quantities of gases and solid particles that are potentially harmful to electronic equipment. Urban areas that are highly industrialized might have levels of gases and solid particles that cause an unacceptable environment exposure to exist throughout an entire area. IBM is concerned with two classes of atmospheric contaminants; solid particles and gases.  Solid particles in the air are referred to as particulates. Water vapor can combine with these tiny, solid particles and form compounds.  Such matter is said to be hygroscopic.  It can be harmful, depending on the particulate composition.  Gases can form harmful acids or bases when combined with water.   Because of the ability to absorb moisture, the relative humidity and temperature are significant factors in an unacceptable environment. High concentrations of gases, such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, and acidic gaseous chlorine, which are associated with industrial processes, are known to cause corrosion and failure of electronic components.  In addition to gases, some industrial processes produce particulate contamination. These particles can settle (in the form of dust) in surrounding areas even though the process producing the particles might be some distance away. Industries engaged in processing petroleum, chemicals, primary metals, food, mining, and paper have a higher probability of encountering an unacceptable environment.  However, contamination can be a result of construction, cleaning, or other activities that can occur anywhere. A visual inspection is the first step in determining the likelihood of contamination.  Some indicators of an unacceptable environment might include corrosion of metal such as door handles and hinges.  Often, the presence of contaminants can be determined by odor as in the case of chlorine or sulfur, which have a distinctive smell.  Observe whether a heavy layer of dust settles on surfaces, especially in the primary metals industry.  This dust is often conductive and can create electrical arcing or short circuits if drawn into electronic equipment. To determine adherence to IBM requirements for gases and particulates, laboratory techniques are necessary.  Testing for gases and particulates involves special equipment and procedures.  Contact your IBM installation planning representative for guidance. Recommended solutions might include, but are not limited to, room pressurization, tighter relative humidity control, filtration, maintenance, and monitoring. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Acclimation Server and storage equipment must be acclimated to the surrounding environment to prevent condensation. When server and storage equipment is shipped in a climate where the outside temperature is below the dew point of an indoor location, there is a possibility that water condensation will form on the cooler surfaces inside the equipment when brought into a warmer indoor environment. If condensation occurs, sufficient time must be allowed for the equipment to reach equilibrium with the warmer indoor temperature before removing the shipping bag, if used. Leave the system in the shipping bag, if used, for up to 48 hours, or until there is no visible signs of condensation, to let it acclimate to the indoor environment. Parent topic:          
 Space requirements The floor area required for the equipment is determined by the specific servers to be installed, the location of columns, floor loading capacity, and provisions for future expansion.  See Floor construction and floor loading to review floor loading and weight distribution for your system. When the amount of space is determined, allow for the addition of furniture, carts, and storage cabinets. Additional space, not necessarily in the computer area, is required for air conditioning, electrical, security systems, and fire protection equipment as well as for the storage of tapes, forms, and other supplies. Additional space might be needed to access the server (for example, rack-door-opening clearance). Plan to store all combustible materials in properly designed and protected storage areas.  A computer room or area should be separated from adjacent areas to allow for air conditioning, fire protection, and security. The floor-to-ceiling height must be sufficient to allow server top covers to open for service and should be adequate to allow air circulation from the data processing machine. Recommended heights are 2.6 m to 2.9 m (8 ft 6 in. to 9 ft 6 in.) from the building floor or (if used) from the raised floor to ceiling, but higher ceilings are acceptable. In new construction or remodeling, the computer room area should have a minimum door width of 914 mm (36 in.). Because many machine frames are close to 914 mm (36 in.) in width, the use of a 1067 mm (42 in.) door width would be preferable. The door height should be a minimum of 2032 mm (80 in.) of unobstructed height (no threshold plate). Parent topic:  Related concepts:         
 Floor construction and floor loading Calculate the floor loads for your server with these formulas. A floor loading assessment is the evaluation of the concrete subfloor, not the raised floor. The weight of the raised floor is considered in the floor loading formula. The building floor must support the weight of the equipment to be installed. Although older devices might impose 345 kg/m2 (75 lb/ft2) on the building floor, a typical server design imposes a load of no more than 340 kg/m2 (70 lb/ft2). The following pounds-per-square-foot (lb/ft2) formula is used to calculate floor loading. For assistance with floor load evaluation, contact a structural engineer. Floor Loading is equal to: (machine weight + (15 lb/ft2 x 0.5 svc clear) + (10 lb/ft2 x total area))/ total area The floor loading should not exceed 240 kg/m2 (50 lb/ft2) with a partition allowance of 100 kg/m2 (20 lb/ft2) for a total floor load rating of 340 kg/m2 (70 lb/ft2). The raised-floor weight plus the cable weight adds 50 kg/m2 (10 lb/ft2) uniformly across the total area used in calculations and is included in the 340 kg/m2 (70 lb/ft2) floor loading. (The total area is defined as: machine area + 0.5 service clearance.)  When the service clearance area is also used to distribute machine weight (weight distribution/service clearance), 75 kg/m2 (15 lb/ft2) is considered for personnel and equipment traffic. The distribution weight is applied over 0.5 of the clearance up to a maximum of 760 mm (30 in.) as measured from the machine frame. The raised floor on which the system is to be installed must be capable of supporting the system's weight. Contact the raised floor tile manufacturer, a structural engineer, or both to verify that the raised floor is safe to support a concentrated load equal to one third of the total weight of one rack on a single raised floor tile. Under certain circumstances, such as relocation, it is possible that the concentrated load on a single raised floor tile can be as high as one half of the total weight of one rack per caster. When you are installing two adjacent racks, it is possible that one caster from each rack can be on the same raised floor tile. The load on the raised floor tile can be as high as one third of the total weight of both racks.  Depending on the type of raised floor tile, additional supports, such as pedestals, might be necessary to maintain the structural integrity of an uncut tile or to restore the integrity of a tile that is cut for cable entry or air supply. Contact the raised floor tile manufacturer, a structural engineer, or both to ensure that the raised floor tiles and pedestals can support the concentrated loads. Parent topic:          
 Raised floors Learn how a raised floor environment improves data center operational efficiency. A raised floor accomplishes the following major objectives:       Improves operational efficiency and allows greater flexibility in the arrangement of equipment  Permits the space between the two floors to be used to supply cooling air to the equipment or area  Allows for future layout change with minimum reconstruction cost Protects the interconnecting cables and power receptacles Prevents tripping hazards A raised floor should be constructed of fire-resistant or noncombustible material. The two general floor types are shown in the following figure. The first figure is of a stringerless floor, and the second figure is a floor with stringers. Raised floor factors:    No metal or highly-conductive material that might be at ground potential should be exposed to the walking surface when a metallic raised-floor structure is used. Such exposure is considered an electrical safety hazard. The raised-floor height should be between 155 mm (6 in.) and 750 mm (30 in.). For processors with multiple channels, a minimum raised-floor height of 305 mm (12 in.) is recommended. Clearance must be adequate to accommodate interconnecting cables, fiber cable raceways, power distribution, and any piping that is present under the floor. Experience has shown that higher raised-floor heights allow better air-conditioning balance in the room. Caster point loads on some servers can be as high as 455 kg (1,000 lb) concentrated load anywhere on the panel with a 2 mm (0.080 in.) maximum deflection .  When a raised-floor panel is cut for cable entry or air supply, an additional panel support (pedestal) might be required to restore the structural integrity of the panel to the above requirement. Use protective covering (such as plywood, tempered masonite, or plyron panels) to prevent damage to floor tiles, carpeting, and panels while equipment is being moved into or is relocated within the installation. When the equipment is moved, the dynamic load on the casters is significantly greater than when the equipment is stationary.   Concrete subfloors require treatment to prevent the release of dust.   Use noncombustible protective molding to eliminate sharp edges on all floor cutouts to prevent damage to cables and hoses and to prevent casters from rolling into the floor cutout. Pedestals must be firmly attached to the structural (concrete) floor using an adhesive. Cable cutout size information is determined by the volume of cables passing through the cutout. See the server's documentation for recommendations on the cable cutout size. Signal reference groundTo minimize the effects of high-frequency (HF) interference and other undesired electrical signals (commonly referred to as electrical noise), a Signal Reference System (SRS) may be recommended. An SRS may be made up of a Signal Reference Ground or Grid (SRG), or a Signal Reference Plane (SRP). A Signal Reference Ground or Grid may also be known as a Zero Signal Reference Ground (ZSRG). Regardless of the name used, the intent is to provide an equal potential point of reference for equipment installed in a contiguous area for a wide range of frequencies. This is accomplished by installing a network of low impedance conductors throughout the information technology room. Access (raised) flooring systems that utilize bolted stringer construction can be used to provide a simple SRG. Floor systems that have either no stringer or snap-in stringers do not provide for an effective SRG, and other methods for installing a SRG should be used.  For safety requirements, the SRG must be connected to earth ground. SRG practices recommend that all metallic objects that cross the SRG area are to be bonded (mechanically connected) to the SRG. For more information on Signal Reference Grounds, contact your  installation planning representative. Contaminants that conduct electricity need to be reduced in data center environments. Parent topic:          
 Conductive contamination Contaminants that conduct electricity need to be reduced in data center environments. Semiconductors and sensitive electronics used in current information technology equipment have allowed for the manufacture of very high density electronic circuitry. Although new technology allows for significant increases or capacity in a smaller physical space, it is susceptible to contamination, especially contamination particles that will conduct electricity. Since the early 1990s, it has been determined that data center environments may contain sources of conductive contamination. Contaminants include: carbon fibers, metallic debris such as aluminum, copper and steel filings from construction, and zinc whiskers from zinc-electroplated materials used in raised floor structures.    Although very small, and at times not easily seen without the visual aid of magnifying lenses, this type of contamination can have disastrous impact on equipment availability and reliability. Errors, component damage and equipment outages caused by conductive contamination can be difficult to diagnose. Failures may be at first attributed to other more common factors such as lightning events or electrical power quality or even just presumed to be defective parts. Zinc whiskersThe most common conductive contamination in raised-floor data centers is what is known as zinc whiskers. It is the most common because it is frequently found on the underside of certain types of access floor tiles. Typically, the wood core style floor tile has a flat steel bottom. The steel may be coated with zinc either by a hot-dip-galvanize process or by zinc electroplate. The zinc electroplate steel exhibits a phenomena that appears as whisker-like growths on the surface. These small particles of approximately 1-2 mm (.04-.08 in.) in length can break away from the surface and get pulled into the cooling air stream. Eventually they might be ingested by the equipment air, settle on a circuit board and create a problem. If you suspect that you may have this type of problem, contact your . The following figure shows light reflection from zinc whiskers. Parent topic:          
 Overhead cabling Historically, cabling (power or signal) for computer systems has been done within a rack or under a raised floor. There has been growing customer interest in using nonraised floors, requiring some or all of the cabling to be overhead.  This information describes the considerations associated with overhead cabling of  19-inch racks and 24-inch racks ordered with  servers.  As with all electronic devices, cables and power cords can act as antennas, emitting electromagnetic energy. The levels released are small (less than a mobile phone) and are not dangerous to people, but can interfere with other electronic devices. For example, a mobile phone's emission is measured in volts per meter while a  cable emission is measured in microvolts per meter. However, small amounts of electromagnetic emissions can add up as several cables emit more electromagnetic energy than a single cable. Laying cables on a concrete floor helps to reduce emissions as the floor absorbs some of the energy. Placing cables under a raised floor also helps to reduce emissions. However, when suspending cables in the air, this type of cable layout eliminates the emission reductions provided by a concrete subfloor, a raised floor, or both. IBM supported configurations for servers and I/O units in racks have passed both industry and IBM tests requirements for electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). These tests are completed by laying cables on the floor. To support overhead cabling, additional testing is required by placing the cables overhead and retesting selected configurations. Many overhead cabling configurations have not been tested and are not supported by IBM.  Therefore, overhead cabling with a Power Systems server in IBM 19-inch and 24-inch racks is generally an unsupported configuration. Generally, using overhead cabling is not a problem. The potential for causing interference with any device outside the data center is quite small.  However, the only way to know if a configuration would be problematic is to test it and see if there are interference problems in the data center. If the overhead cabling is causing a problem, it could affect a wireless device in the data center (for example, a wireless temperature or humidity probe trying to report data at a constant rate, but which is sending wrong or intermittent data instead). The interference could be on a two-way radio that has more background noise than expected. Or, the interference could be poor reception in a radio or television. It is possible that the emissions from overhead cabling could cause problems with another computer or storage equipment in the data center, but it is unlikely. There are different actions that you can take to mitigate emissions when using overhead cabling. Note that, while helpful, using these mitigation techniques does not mean you have   supported configuration because   has not conducted extensive testing for your specific configuration. The mitigations might address all the problems, but until tested and certified, the system is not officially supported by . Example mitigations are as follows:Use shielded (Ethernet) cables in place of unshielded (Ethernet) cables.    Add shielding to the cable paths, and ground the shielding on both ends of the cable.  Add shielding to the cables themselves.  Add filters (chokes, pigtails, ferrite cores, and other such filters) to the cables. Filters reduce emissions over a specific frequency range. Different types of cables emit differently based on their composition, length, signals carried, and where they are attached. A fiber optic cable does not emit radio frequency (RF) like a metallic cable unless the fiber optic cable has a metallic shield. Power cords, Small Computer System Interface (SCSI), serial-attached SCSI (SAS), copper Fibre Channel, and system power control network (SPCN) cables typically have modest emissions. InfiniBand cables are significant emitters when compared to power cords. Unshielded Ethernet cables are probably the most significant emitters. Longer metallic cables can be thought of as bigger antennas and emit more. Shorter cables emit less. If you have multiple 19-inch or 24-inch racks and need to run cables from one rack to the other, you can reduce emissions by keeping the cables in the rack instead of going over the top and into the other rack.  Using overhead cables with your Power Systems servers does not void your IBM warranty or maintenance agreement.1 However, if IBM service and support believes that a problem might be related to the use of overhead cabling, then IBM service and support has the right to suspend the warranty or maintenance agreement until the system is put back into compliance. Therefore, overhead cabling options should be discussed with your local IBM service and support organization before you implement a new cabling scheme. Cables can always be routed out the bottom of the product in accordance with the product installation instructions. After the cables are routed to exit the bottom of the product, they can be externally routed upward to the overhead cabling trays using appropriate cable management techniques. 1The customer must not cut or drill any additional holes or openings into the product enclosure under any circumstances.  Any alteration of the physical structure of an enclosure voids the product safety certifications received for the product. Parent topic:          
 Computer room layout Effective computer room layout is dependent on several important factors. The factors for effective computer room layout are as follows. Service clearance and floor loadingEach piece of equipment that you plan to install has some minimum amount of space around it that is required to be kept clear so that service might be performed on that equipment, if it become necessary. Beyond keeping a clear area around the equipment, it is advisable that traffic patterns for work flow do not fall in service clearance boundaries. Do not allow the service clearance areas to be used for temporary or permanent storage. Exact clearance dimensions are supplied with the individual product specifications.   Generally, floor loading areas fall inside the service clearance boundaries. Consult individual product planning documentation and your seller for specific information about the equipment that you are planning to install. If you have not yet done so, review floor loading, weight distribution, service clearance, and machine area.  Physical and logical prioritySome types of peripheral equipment might require physical or logical positioning in relation to the processor or other equipment that might dictate where that equipment must be placed on your floor. Consult individual product planning documentation and your seller to determine if equipment that you are planning to install must be specifically placed. Such equipment should be situated in your floor layout diagrams first, before other equipment that does not require precise positioning.    Restrictive cable lengthsAs computing power increases, cable lengths might decrease to support improvements in processing speed. Consult product-specific planning documentation and your seller to determine where cable lengths will allow you to place each piece of equipment on your floor. Review cabling and connectivity, especially if you are using Integrated Cluster Bus (ICB) cables.   Practical work space and safetyAllow enough room around equipment for normal movement of work flow. Consider the placement of equipment in relation to entrances and exits, windows, columns, wall-mounted equipment, such as circuit breaker boxes and electrical outlets, safety equipment, fire extinguishers, storage areas, and furniture. Be especially careful to allow easy access to things like the emergency power-off controls, smoke detectors, sprinkler systems, and under-floor or in-ceiling fire extinguishing systems.    If possible, make plans now to allow for future additional equipment. Plan cable routing and server locations to make it easy for additional units to be added.   Other equipmentIn addition to the information technology equipment that you will be installing, allow room for office furniture and equipment, power and air conditioning, storage for operating supplies, and miscellaneous considerations, such as a meeting area, vending machine location, or water fountains.   It is highly recommended that scale drawings of your proposed layout be prepared and reviewed by both your seller and all service providers to ensure that your floor layout is physically capable and practically useful. Following is a chart of standard symbols used to create floor layouts. Parent topic:          
 Vibration and shock Use this information to plan for possible vibration and shock in your data center. It might be necessary to install the information technology equipment in an area subject to minor vibrations. The following information supplies vibration and shock limits for your equipment and some basic definitions concerning vibration. The vibration levels normally present in computer-room and industrial installations are well within the indicated levels. However, mounting the equipment in racks, stackers, or similar equipment might increase the risks of vibration-related problems. It is important to consult the manufacturer of such equipment to ensure that vibration factors will not exceed the specifications provided in the following tables. Some useful definitions of vibration include:    Acceleration: Normally measured in g multiples of the acceleration because of the force of gravity. If the frequency is also known for a sine wave, acceleration can be calculated from displacement.  is the unit of acceleration caused by the force of gravity. Continuous: Vibrations present over an extended period and cause a sustained resonant response in the equipment.  Displacement: Magnitude of the wave shape; normally given in peak-to-peak displacement in English or metric units:Normally used to measure floor vibrations at low frequencies If the frequency is also known, it can be converted to displacement g for a sine wave.  Many measuring instruments can convert displacement to g for either sinusoidal or complex wave shapes. Peak: The maximum value of a sinusoidal or random vibration. This can be expressed as peak-to-peak in cases of sinusoidal vibration displacement. Random: A complex vibration wave form varying in amplitude and frequency content.    rms (root mean square):  The long-term average of the acceleration or amplitude values. Normally used as a measure of overall vibration for random vibration. Shock: Intermittent inputs that occur and then decay to zero prior to a recurrence of the event. Typical examples are foot traffic, fork lifts in aisles, and external events such as railroad, highway traffic, or construction activities (including blasting). Sinusoidal: Vibrations with the characteristic shape of the classical sine wave (for example, 60-Hz ac power). Transient: Vibrations that are intermittent and do not cause a sustained resonant response in the equipment.    If you need to make any calculations or require information regarding the above definitions, consult a mechanical engineer, a vibration consulting engineer, or your seller.    The three classes of a vibration environment are shown in the following table. Class Vibration environment V1 Floor-mounted machines in an office environment V2 Table-top and wall-mounted machines V3 Heavy industrial and mobile equipment A summary of the vibration limits for each of the three classes is shown in the following table. A legend follows the table.   Vibration levels at any discrete frequency should not exceed a level of 1/2 the g rms values for the class listed in the Operational vibration and shock limits table. Class g rms g peak Mils Shock V1 L 0.10 0.30 3.4 3 g at 3 ms V1 H 0.05 0.15 1.7 3 g at 3 ms V2 0.10 0.30 3.4 3 g at 3 ms V3 0.27 0.80 9.4 application dependent L: Light, weight less than 600 kg (1322.8 lb). H: Heavy, weight equal to or greater than 600 kg (1322.8 lb). g rms: Overall average g level over the 5 to 500 Hz frequency range. g peak:  Maximum real-time instantaneous peak value of the vibration time history wave form (excluding events defined as shocks).  Mils: Peak-to-peak displacement of a discrete frequency in the 5 to 17 Hz range. One mil equal .001 inch. Shock: Amplitude and pulse width of a classical 1/2 sine shock pulse. The values given in the Operational vibration and shock limits table are based on worst-case field data measured at customer installations for current and previously released products. The vibration and shock environment will not exceed these values except for abnormal cases involving earthquakes or direct impacts.     Earthquakes Special frame-strengthening features or RPQs might be required in earthquake prone areas. Local codes might require the information technology equipment to be tied down to the concrete floor. If sufficient information on equipment tie down is not provided in the product's physical planning documentation, consult with your seller. Parent topic:          
 Lighting Proper lighting is required to normally operate the server and when service is required. Light sources in the equipment room and work station areas should have a general lighting level of 300 - 500 lumens/m2 (lux) or 30 - 50 foot-candles. When preparing the equipment room and work areas, consider painting the room a light color with a white ceiling to reflect (rather than absorb) light. To lessen any glare, windows should not be in an operator's field of vision or directly facing the display screen. Direct sunlight can cause light-sensing devices to malfunction and make observations of various signal lamps difficult.   To avoid eye fatigue, light sources should be compatible. Universal white fluorescent lamps are compatible with both incandescent lamps and daylight.  The following figure shows a suggested lighting layout for a workstation. Provide and maintain emergency lighting, of sufficient intensity, to ensure a safe exit. Parent topic:          
 Electromagnetic compatibility Use this information to plan for server installation in an environment that has a high electomagnetic-radiated field. Information technology equipment installation might occasionally be planned in an area that has a high electromagnetic-radiated field environment. This condition results when the information technology equipment is near a radio frequency source such as a radio-transmitting antenna (AM, FM, TV, or two-core radio), civilian and military radar, and certain industrial machines (rf induction heaters, rf arc welders, and insulation testers). If any of these sources are near the proposed site, a planning review might be appropriate to assess the environment and determine whether any special installation or product considerations are advisable to reduce interference. Consult your seller. Workstations located near devices like transformers or buried electrical conduits can experience jitter on the workstation display in the presence of strong magnetic fields. Most products can tolerate low-frequency to very-high-frequency rf levels of 3 volts per meter. Field strengths greater than 3 volts per meter might cause operational or serviceability problems. Products have different tolerance levels to electromagnetic-radiated fields in different frequency ranges. Radar (frequency of 1300 MHz, and 2800 MHz) signals with field strengths of a maximum of 5 volts per meter are acceptable. If problems occur, reorientation of the server or selective shielding might be required.    Two-core radio or cellular telephone usage should be properly controlled in the computer room. To reduce the likelihood of a problem, the following recommendations should be considered when operating such equipment:    Keep hand-held transmitters (for example, walkie-talkies, radio paging, and cellular telephones) a minimum of 1.5 m (5 ft) from information technology equipment. Use only an operator-controlled transmitting device (no automatic transmissions). Develop specific rules, such as - Do not transmit within 1.5 m (5 ft) of a fully covered operating server. If covers are open, do not transmit. Choose the minimum output power that will accomplish your communication needs. Extremely low frequency (ELF) fieldsWith the exception of some video display cathode ray tubes (CRT), most information technology equipment is tolerant of extremely low frequency (ELF) electromagnetic fields. The video displays that use cathode ray tubes are more sensitive because they use electromagnetic fields to position the electron beam in normal operation. The extremely low frequency range covers frequencies between 0 and 300 Hz. It is also referred to as electrical power frequency because most world electrical power is generated at either 50 or 60 Hz.  products tolerate ELF electromagnetic fields in the following ranges: Cathode ray tube video display: 15-20 milligauss Liquid crystal display (LCD) : 10 Gauss  Magnetic tape equipment: 20 Gauss Disk drive equipment : 20 Gauss Processors or servers : 20 Gauss Typical information technology centers exhibit an ambient electromagnetic field between 3-8 milligauss. Some equipment within a center may, under normal operation,  produce fields in excess of 100 milligauss. Examples of equipment that produces large magnetic fields include: power distribution units, electric motors, electrical transformers, laser printers and uninterruptible power systems. However, magnetic field density decreases rapidly with distance. If a CRT display is located near equipment that produces large electromagnetic fields, the display may exhibit distortion such as poor focus, change in image shape or slight motion in static display images. Moving the CRT away from the equipment may remedy the problem. Parent topic:          
 Computer room location Computer room location is affected by several factors. Before selecting a location for the computer, give attention to these guidelines:    The computer room should be in a noncombustible or fire-resistant building or room.  The computer room should not be above, below, or adjacent to areas where hazardous materials or gases are stored, manufactured, or processed. If the computer must be located near such an area, take extra precautions to safeguard the area. If the computer room is below ground level, provide adequate drainage. Safety consideration and fire preventionSafety is a vital factor when planning computer installation. This consideration is reflected in the choice of the computer location, building materials used, fire prevention equipment, air conditioning and electrical systems, and personnel training.    If an inconsistency occurs between your server's recommendations and any local or national regulation, the more stringent of the recommendations or regulations should take precedence. The National Fire Protection Association standard, NFPA 75, provides guidelines for protection of information technology equipment. The customer is responsible for adherence to governmental regulations.    Computer room walls should have a minimum of a 1-hour-fire-resistance rating and extend from the structural floor to the structural ceiling (slab-to-slab). In rooms used for critical operations, it is preferable to install processors in 1-hour-fire-rated rooms separate from the main computer room. If the computer room has one or more outside walls adjacent to a building that is susceptible to fire, consider taking the following precautionary actions:   Installing shatterproof windows in the computer room to improve the safety of personnel and equipment from flying debris and water damage. Usually, windows in the computer room are undesirable because of security concerns, and the negative effect they have on temperature control. They can cause excessive heating in the summer, and excessive cooling in the winter. Installing sprinklers outside the windows to protect them with a blanket of water if a fire occurs in the adjacent area. Sealing the windows with masonry.  Where a false (or hung) ceiling or insulating material is to be added, ensure that it is noncombustible or fire-resistant material. All duct work should be noncombustible. If combustible material is used in the space between the structural ceiling and the false ceiling, appropriate protection should be provided.   A raised floor that is installed over the structural floor should be constructed of noncombustible or fire-retardant materials. If the structural floor is of combustible material, it should be protected by water sprinklers on the ceiling of the room below.   Before the information technology equipment is installed, the space between the raised and the structural floors should be cleared of debris. This space should also be checked periodically after installation to keep it free of accumulated dust, possible debris, and unused cables.  The roof, ceiling, and floor above the computer room and the storage area for recorded media should be watertight. Liquid piping, roof drains, and other potential sources of liquid damage should be rerouted around the area. The space under the raised floor in the computer room should be provided with drainage to protect against flooding or trapped water. Waste material containers should be constructed of metal with a frame-suppressant lid. Fire prevention equipment in a computer roomFire prevention equipment in the computer room should be installed as an added safety measure. A fire suppression system is the responsibility of the customer. Your insurance underwriter, local fire marshall, and local building inspector are all parties that should be consulted in selecting a fire suppression system that provides the correct level of coverage and protection.   designs and manufactures equipment to internal and external standards that require certain environments for reliable operation. Because   does not test any equipment for compatibility with fire suppression systems,   does not make compatibility claims of any kind nor does   provide recommendations on fire suppression systems.    An early-warning fire detection system should be installed to protect the computer room and storage areas for recorded media. This system should activate both an audible and a visual alarm in the rooms and at a monitored central station.  Portable carbon dioxide fire extinguishers, of suitable size and number, should be provided in the computer room for use on electrical equipment.   Portable, pressurized-water extinguishers should be provided for combustible material such as paper. Extinguishers should be readily accessible to individuals in the area, and extinguisher locations should be marked so they are visible. Automatic sprinkler systems and gaseous total flooding systems are acceptable forms of fixed protection. For information on environmentally friendly gases for total flooding systems, consult NFPA 2001 titled Standard on Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems. Special consideration should be used if you prefer a gaseous total flooding system. If a gaseous total flooding system is installed, include a time delay feature that allows investigation and evacuation from the covered area of the gaseous total flooding system. A cross-zoned detection system is suggested. The protected area must be evacuated whenever the gaseous total flooding system or its controls are being serviced. Additionally, a master Disarm switch, available for use by the system service personnel, is required. With the switch set in the off position, the detonators used to release the gaseous total flooding system must be made inoperative, even if the circuit fails elsewhere in the system. This switch must be placed in the off (manual) position before servicing begins to prevent possible accidental discharge of the gaseous total flooding system. Alternatives to ordinary wet pipe sprinkler systems might include dry pipe systems or preaction systems. Water flows into preaction systems only if triggered by smoke or heat detectors. The detection systems should be independent of gaseous total flooding system detection systems. The On-Off type of sprinkler head is not recommended because it is more prone to leakage.  To determine the proper fire protection required for the computer room, consult with your insurance underwriter and your local code authority. Parent topic:          
 Material and data storage protection Special safety considerations are required when storing data or other material.  Consider the following factors:    Any data or material stored in the computer room, whether in the form of magnetic tapes, paper tapes, cards, or paper forms, should be limited to the minimum needed for safe, efficient operation and should be enclosed in metal cabinets or fire-resistant containers when not in use.   For security purposes, and protection against fire, a separate room for material storage is strongly recommended. This room should be constructed of fire-resistant material (minimum 2-hour-fire-resistance rating). An approved fixed extinguishing system is recommended. Fixed extinguishing systems include automatic sprinklers and approved total flooding gaseous systems. If continuity of operation is critical, plan a remote storage location for vital records if a disaster occurs. Key considerations in the choice of an off-site location for data storage are that the area is:    Not subject to the same risk that might occur in the computer room. Suitable for long-term storage of hardcopy records and magnetic media files. Air conditioning systemsIn most installations, the computer area is controlled by a separate air conditioning system. Therefore, emergency power-off switches for the equipment and air conditioning should be placed in convenient locations, preferably near the console operator and next to the main exit doors. See National Fire Protection Association standard, NFPA 70 article 645, for information.  When the regular building air conditioning system is used, with supplemental units in the computer area, the supplemental units would then be handled as stated above. The regular building air conditioning system should have an audible alarm to alert maintenance personnel of an emergency.  Fire dampers should be located in all air ducts at fire walls. The air filters in the air conditioning system should contain noncombustible or self-extinguishing material.  Electrical systemsProvide a mainline disconnect control for the computer equipment at a remote location. The remote controls should be in a convenient location, preferably near the console operator and next to the main exit doors. They should be next to the power-off switch for the air conditioning system and should be properly marked. A light should be installed to indicate when power is on. The National Electric Code (NFPA 70) article 645 states that a single disconnecting means to control both the electronic equipment  and the HVAC system is permitted.  If continuity of operation is essential, a standby power source should be installed. It is advisable to install an automatic battery-operated lighting unit to illuminate an area if a power or lighting circuit failure occurs. This unit is wired to and controlled by the lighting circuit. Watertight connectors are recommended under raised floors because of the moisture exposures (water pipe leaks, high humidity levels) under raised floors. Parent topic:          
 Emergency planning for continuous operations Planning for emergencies ensures that your data center continues to operate in the event of a power outage. If a power outage occurs, continued operation depends on information stored on cards, tapes, or disks, and the equipment used to process the information being available immediately. Arrangements should be made for emergency use of other equipment and transportation of personnel, data, and supplies to a temporary location. Arrangements should also be made to ensure the continuous operation of environment equipment, such as air conditioning. Duplicate or master records and programming data should be maintained in a remote area, from which the necessary information can be taken to resume operation.  Precautions and personnel trainingFurther plans should include training of personnel to act in an emergency situation.      Sound alarm signals for fire detection and for other abnormal conditions to familiarize personnel with the alarm. Monitor the computer room, air conditioning equipment room, and electrical and data storage room at all times. Inspect steam pipes and water pipes above the false ceiling to guard against possible damage due to accidental breakage, leakage, or condensation. Locate emergency exit doors in the computer area. The number of doors depends on the size and location of the area.  Train personnel in emergency measures such as:  Shutting off all electrical power Shutting off the air conditioning system Shutting off the chilled water to the information technology equipment Calling the fire company Handling fire extinguishers in the approved manner  Operating a small-diameter fire hose Evacuating records Evacuating personnel  Administering first aid Lightning protection for communication wiringBe sure to install lightning protection devices to protect communication wiring and equipment from surges and transients induced into the communication wiring. In any area subject to lightning, surge suppressors should be installed at each end of every outdoor cable installation, whether installed above the ground (aerial) or buried below the ground. Information about lightning surge suppressors for communication wiring and recommended methods for outdoor communication cables can be found in the information technology product's physical planning documentation. Parent topic:          
 General power information Reliable electrical power is required for the proper functioning of your data processing equipment.  information technology equipment requires a reliable electrical power source that is free from interference or disturbance. Electrical power companies generally supply power of sufficient quality. The Power quality, Voltage and frequency limits, Power load, and Power source topics provide the guidance and specifications needed to meet the requirements of the equipment. Qualified personnel must ensure that electrical power distribution system is safe and meets local and national codes. They must also ensure that the voltage measured at the power receptacle is within the specified tolerance for the equipment. In addition, a separate power feeder is required for items such as lighting and air conditioning. A properly installed electrical power system will help to provide for reliable operation of your  equipment.  Other factors to consider when planning and installing the electrical system include a means of providing a low impedance conducting path to ground (path to earth) and lightning protection. Depending on the geographical location, special considerations may be required for lightning protection. Your electrical contractor should meet all local and national electrical code requirements. Building electrical power is normally derived from a three-phase power distribution system. General office areas are normally provided with single-phase power outlets, and data processing rooms are provided with three-phase power.  Some IT equipment and devices may require standard three-phase power; others may require single-phase power. The power requirements for each device are specified in the individual server specifications for that server. Nominal voltage, plugs, receptacles, and in some cases, conduit and back boxes are listed in the specific server specifications. Refer to the respective server specifications to determine the power requirements. Ensure that existing branch circuit outlets are the correct type and are properly grounded. The quality of electrical power significantly impacts the performance of sensitive electronic equipment. These guidelines ensure that quality electrical power is provided to your data center. Voltage and frequency limits must be maintained to ensure proper functioning of your server.  A preliminary sizing for total power load can be obtained by adding the total power requirements for all devices to be connected.  These guidelines help to ensure that your data center has a quality power source. These dual-power installation configurations allow you to leverage the fully-redundant power features of your server. Parent topic:  Related information:         
 Power quality The quality of electrical power significantly impacts the performance of sensitive electronic equipment. These guidelines ensure that quality electrical power is provided to your data center.  equipment can tolerate some power disturbances or transients. However, large disturbances can cause equipment power failures or errors. Transients can come into the site on the power utility company lines but are often caused by electrical equipment installed in the building. For example, transients can be produced by welders, cranes, motors, induction heaters, elevators, copy machines, and other office equipment. The best way to prevent problems caused by power disturbances is to have transient-producing equipment on a separate power service than the one that supplies power to your information technology equipment.                     Ground or earthWhen used in reference to electrical power systems, Ground is a conducting connection between an electrical circuit and the earth or some conducting body that serves in place of the earth. The term ground is the most common name used, however it is also referred to as earth or terra in several international geographies. In this topic, these terms and other local language equivalents are interchangeable. Ground is a critical component of an electrical power distribution system. A properly installed ground system allows for safe operation of equipment that is connected to the electrical power source under normal and electrical or equipment fault conditions. The life safety function of ground and grounding methods is addressed by the appropriate local and national electrical wiring codes. In the United States, this code is known as the National Electric Code or publication 70 of the National Fire Protection Association. Many countries have adopted the National Electric Code or have developed an equivalent code. The National Electric Code and  its equivalents have a primary objective to provide safe operation of electrical power distribution systems and electrical equipment installations. Compliance with these codes does not guarantee efficient operation of equipment connected to the power distribution systems. When sensitive electronic equipment is connected, there are often times when additional ground connections may be required. Typically, additional ground connections are recommended when there is a concern for high frequency or radio frequency (RF) interference, which may impact electronic circuits. These additional ground requirements will be found with the installation documentation for specific equipment. Additional ground requirements may also be recommendations from engineering or data center evaluations, reviews or surveys. Local or national codes allow for these additional grounds to be installed.   Grounding equipment, unless double insulated, has power cords containing an insulated grounding conductor (color-coded green or green with yellow stripe) that connects the frame of the equipment to the ground terminal at the power receptacle. The power receptacles for  equipment are identified in the equipment documentation and should match the equipment power plug. In some cases, there may be options for different manufacturer equivalent receptacles.  equipment plugs should not be changed or altered to match existing connectors or receptacles. To do so may create a safety hazard and void product warranty. The connectors or receptacles for  equipment should be installed to a branch circuit with an equipment grounding conductor, connected to the grounding bus bar in the branch-circuit distribution panel. The grounding bus bar in the panel should then be connected back to the service entrance or suitable building ground by an equipment grounding conductor. Information technology equipment must be properly grounded. It is recommended that an insulated green wire ground, the same size as the phase wire, be installed between the branch circuit panel and the receptacle. For personnel safety, the ground must have sufficiently low impedance to limit the voltage to ground and to facilitate the operation of protective devices in the circuit. For example, the ground path shall not exceed 1 ohm for 120-volt, 20-ampere branch circuit devices.  The ground path impedance limit is 0.5 ohms for 120 volt branch circuits protected by 30 ampere circuit breakers. The limit is 0.1 ohms for 120 volt 60 to 100 ampere circuits. All grounds entering the room should be interconnected somewhere within the building to provide a common ground potential. This includes any separate power sources, lighting and convenience outlets, and other grounded objects, such as building steel, plumbing, and duct work.  The equipment grounding conductor must be electrically attached to both the enclosure of the computer power center and the connector grounding terminal. Conduit must not be used as the only grounding means, and it must be connected in parallel with any grounding conductors it contains. Transient grounding To minimize the effects of high-frequency electrical noise, the branch circuit power panel servicing the equipment should be mounted in contact with bare building steel or connected to it by a short length of cable. If this is not possible, a metal area of at least 1 m2 (10 ft2) in contact with masonry can be used. The plate should be connected to the green-conductor common. The preferred connection is with a braided strap. If a braided strap is not available, the connection should consist of no. 12 AWG (3.3 mm or 0.0051 in.) or larger conductor and should not be more than 1.5 m (5 ft) long. To minimize this length, the preferred connection of this braided strap or conductor is to the nearest portion of the enclosure on the panel, if the enclosure is electrically continuous from the green-conductor common point to this point of connection.    The raised-floor-supporting substructure can be used as a substitute for the transient plate if the structure has a consistently low-impedance path. If the raised floor has stringers or other subframing that makes electrical connection between the pedestals, the floor itself can be used for the signal reference plane. Some raised floors are stringerless and the floor tiles lock into isolated pedestals by gravity alone. If there is no reliable electrical connection between the pedestals, a signal reference grid can be constructed by connecting the pedestals together with conductors. A minimal grid would interconnect every other pedestal in the immediate area of the power panel and extend at least 3 m (10 ft) in all directions. Stranded bare or insulated conductor of at least no. 8 AWG (8 mm or 0.0124 in.) copper is required. This conductor provides a low-impedance path and is strong enough to make physical damage unlikely. Any connection method is acceptable as long as it provides a reliable electrical and mechanical connection.    A customer's self-contained, separately derived power system (computer power centers, transformers, motor generators), installed on a raised floor, has the same requirements.    Power specificationsYour server is normally furnished with power-supply provision to meet the 50-Hz or 60-Hz voltage standards shown in the following tables, respectively. Single phase 100 110 200 220 230 240 Three phase 200 220 380 400 415    This table lists the nominal voltages available at the specified frequency. The columns for single phase and three phase do not imply a phasor relationship.  Single phase 100 110 120 127 200 208 220 240 277 Three phase 200 208 220 240 480          This table lists the nominal voltages available at the specified frequency. The columns for single phase and three phase do not imply a phasor relationship.  Parent topic:          
 Voltage and frequency limits Voltage and frequency limits must be maintained to ensure proper functioning of your server.  The phase-to-phase steady-state voltage must be maintained within plus six percent to minus 10 percent of the normal rated voltage, measured at the receptacle when the system is operating. A voltage surge or sag condition must not exceed plus 15 percent or minus 18 percent of the nominal voltage and must return to within a steady-state tolerance of plus 6 percent or minus 10 percent of normal rated voltage within 0.5 second.   Some servers might require special considerations and might have more or less restrictive specifications. See the individual server specifications for actual requirements. Because of the possibility of brownouts (planned voltage reduction by the utility company) or other marginal voltage conditions, installing a voltage monitor might be advisable.   The phase frequency must be maintained at 50 or 60 Hz + 0.5 Hz.   The value of any of the three phase-to-phase equipment voltages in the three-phase system must not differ by more than 2.5 percent from the arithmetic average of the three voltages. All three line-to-line voltages must be within the limits specified above.   The maximum total harmonic content of the power system voltage waveforms on the equipment feeder must not exceed 5 percent with the equipment operating. Parent topic:          
 Power load A preliminary sizing for total power load can be obtained by adding the total power requirements for all devices to be connected.  For a more precise analysis of power distribution system requirements, you can request   System Power Profile Program printout from your seller. The System Power Profile Program, controlled and operated by the service office installation planning representative, provides a vector analysis rather than an arithmetic summation of total power. The vector analysis takes into consideration power factor and phase relationships. In addition, it considers waveform distortions caused by the load and inrush requirements. Additional capacity should be planned for future expansion. Contact you service office installation planning representative for information on how to obtain a System Power Profile. Primary power problem areasYour server is designed to operate on the normal power supplied by most electrical utility companies. However, possible computer malfunctions can be caused by outside (radiated or conducted) transient electrical noise signals being superimposed on the power line to the computer. To guard against this interference, power distribution design should comply with the specifications discussed in this topic. Failures caused by the power source are basically of three types:   Power line disturbances, such as, short duration dips in voltage as well as prolonged outages. If the frequency of such power failures is not acceptable for your operation, installing standby or buffered power might be necessary.  Transient electrical noise superimposed on power lines might be caused by a variety of industrial, medical, communication, or other equipment:   Within the computing facilities  Adjacent to the computing facilities In the vicinity of the power company's distribution lines Switching large electrical loads can cause problems, even though the source is on a different branch circuit. If you suspect such a condition, it might be advisable to provide a separate, dedicated feeder or transformer for your server directly from your power source. If the transient-producing devices have been eliminated from the feeder and the computer room power panel and power line disturbances are still present, it might be necessary for you to install isolation equipment (for example, transformers, motor generators, or other power conditioning equipment).   Lightning protectionInstalling lightning protection devices is recommended on the computer power source when:      The primary power is supplied by an overhead power service. The utility company installs lightning protectors on the primary power source. The area is subject to electrical storms or an equivalent type of power surge. Lightning protection for communication wiringBe sure to install lightning protection devices to protect communication wiring and equipment from surges and transients induced into the communication wiring. In any area subject to lightning, surge suppressors should be installed at each end of every outdoor cable installation, whether installed above the ground (aerial) or buried below the ground.  Information about lightning surge suppressors for communication wiring systems and recommended installation methods for outdoor communication cables can be found in the manuals for the specific type of data processing system that is being considered. Parent topic:          
 Power source These guidelines help to ensure that your data center has a quality power source. The primary power source is normally a wye-type or delta-type, three-phase service coming from a service entrance or a separately derived source with appropriate overcurrent protection and suitable ground (service entrance or building ground). A three-phase, five-wire power distribution system should be provided for flexibility in your data processing installation. However, depending on the type of equipment installed, a single-phase distribution system might be sufficient. The five wire system enables you to provide power for three-phase line-to-line, single phase line-to-line, and single phase line-to-Neutral. The five wires consist of three phase conductors, one neutral conductor, and one insulated equipment grounding conductor (green, or green with yellow trace).  Conduit must not be used as the only grounding means.   Power panel feedersEnsure that the feeder wires to the branch-circuit distribution panel (shown in Power quality) are large enough to handle the total server power load. It is recommended that these feeders service no other loads.   Branch circuitsThe computer branch circuit panel should be in an unobstructed, well-lighted area in the computer room.    The individual branch circuits on the panel should be protected by suitable circuit breakers properly rated according to manufacturer specifications and applicable codes. Each circuit breaker should be labeled to identify the branch circuit it is controlling. The receptacle should also be labeled.    Where a branch circuit and receptacle are installed to service your server, it is recommended that the grounding conductor of the branch circuit be insulated and equal in size to the phase conductors. The grounding conductor is an insulated, dedicated-equipment-grounding conductor, not the neutral.    Branch circuit receptacles installed under a raised floor should be within 0.9 m (3 ft) of the server that they supply power to. If the branch circuits are contained in a metallic conduit, either rigid or nonrigid, the conduit system should be grounded. This is accomplished by bonding the conduit to the power distribution panel, which in turn, is tied to the building or transformer ground.    Power cords are supplied in 4.3 m (14 ft) lengths unless otherwise noted in the server specifications. The length is measured from the exit symbol on the plan views. Some power plugs furnished by your seller are watertight, and should be located under the computer room raised floor. Phase rotationThe three-phase power receptacles for some equipment, such as printers, must be wired for correct phase rotation. When looking at the face of the receptacle and counting clockwise from the ground pin, the sequence is phase 1, phase 2, and phase 3. Emergency power controlA disconnecting means should be provided to disconnect the power from all electronic equipment in the computer room. This disconnecting means should be controlled from locations readily accessible to the operator at the principal exit doors. A similar disconnecting means to disconnect the air conditioning system serving this area should be available. Consult the local and national codes to determine the requirements for your installation. National Electric Code (NFPA 70) article 645 provides the requirements for this room EPO. See Emergency planning for continuous operations. Convenience outletsA suitable number of convenience outlets should be installed in the computer room and the Service Representative area for use by building maintenance personnel and service representatives. Convenience outlets should be on the lighting or other building circuits, not on the computer power panel or feeder. Under no circumstances are the service convenience outlets on your servers to be used for any purpose other than normal servicing. Parent topic:  Related concepts: Related information:         
 Dual-power installation configurations These dual-power installation configurations allow you to leverage the fully-redundant power features of your server. Some  models are designed with a fully redundant power system. The possible power installation configurations are: This configuration requires that the system receives power from two separate power distribution panels.  This configuration requires that the system receives power from two separate power distribution panels. This configuration requires that the system receives power from two separate circuit breakers in a single power panel. Parent topic:          
 Dual-power installation: Redundant distribution panel and switch This configuration requires that the system receives power from two separate power distribution panels.  Each distribution panel receives power from a separate piece of building switch gear. This level of redundancy is not available in most facilities. Parent topic:          
 Dual-power installation: Redundant distribution panel This configuration requires that the system receives power from two separate power distribution panels.  The two distribution panels receive power from the same piece of building switch gear. Most facilities should be able to achieve this level of redundancy. Parent topic:          
 Single distribution panel: Dual circuit breakers This configuration requires that the system receives power from two separate circuit breakers in a single power panel.  This configuration does not make full use of the redundancy provided by the processor. It is, however, acceptable if a second power distribution panel is not available. Parent topic:          
 Temperature and humidity recording instruments Temperature and humidity recording instruments should be installed to provide a continuous record of the environmental conditions.  Direct-reading instruments with seven-day charts are suggested to monitor the ambient room conditions. Any under-floor air conditioning supply should also be monitored.    Monitoring provides the ability to:     Assure the air conditioning system is continuously performing as designed. Determine whether a mandatory drying-out period is necessary when the humidity limitations are exceeded. The duration of the drying-out period is determined by the extent and duration of excess humidity. Determine whether a mandatory warm-up period is necessary when the building temperature has dropped below server operating specifications during off-shift hours. A visual or audible signal should be incorporated with the recording instrument to alert personnel that ambient conditions are approaching the maximum limitations. Parent topic:          
 Relocation and temporary storage Shipment or storage conditions that exceed the specified limits can cause permanent damage to your server. These guidelines should be followed when relocating or temporarily storing your server.  Care should be taken to ensure that a server is not stored with chemicals that can cause corrosion damage.    When a server is removed in preparation for shipment or storage, use the packaging bill of material. This might include a protective package, including blocks, braces, and preparation instructions, designed uniquely for each server.   large processors are designed for operation in a controlled temperature and relative humidity range, and require the environment be kept within this range even when they are in a storage area or in transit. See the individual server specifications for operating environment limits. Shipment of large processors should be in an environmentally controlled van with appropriate strapping and padding to avoid any transit damage. Properties Shipping environment Temperature -40°C - 60°C (-40°F - 140°F) Relative humidity 5% to 100% (no condensation) Maximum wet bulb 1°C - 27°C (33.8°F - 80.6°F) If shipping a large processor in a nonenvironmentally controlled van, contact your seller for packing and unpacking instructions. Properties Storage environment Temperature 1°C - 60°C (33.8°F - 140°F) Relative humidity 5% - 80% Maximum wet bulb 1°C - 29°C (33.8°F - 84.2°F) Parent topic:          
 Planning for the installation of rear door heat exchangers Use this information to prepare your location to facilitate the use of the  rear door heat exchanger. The heat exchanger is a water-cooled device that is mounted on the rear of  rack to cool the air that is heated and exhausted by devices inside the rack. A supply hose delivers chilled, conditioned water to the heat exchanger. A return hose delivers warmed water back to the water pump or chiller. In this document, this is referred to as a secondary cooling loop. The primary cooling loop supplies the building chilled water to secondary cooling loops, air conditioning units, and so on. The hoses for the secondary cooling loop are not included with this product. The rack on which you install the heat exchanger can be on a raised floor or a non-raised floor. For heat exchanger performance information, see Heat exchanger performance. For information about hoses, water treatment, and cooling distribution units for supplying conditioned water, see Secondary cooling loop parts and services information. If you want to procure IBM installation planning services regarding what is needed to plan for supplying conditioned water and installing the rear door heat exchangers, see Secondary cooling loop parts and services information. Planning considerations overviewAs you plan the installation of the heat exchanger, include the following considerations:Providing chilled, conditioned water that meets the specifications that are outlined in .  Procuring and installing the water supply system that is suitable for your data center. Details are provided in .  Providing redundant secondary cooling loop water supply, or enough room air conditioning to handle a tolerable heat load if the function of one or more of the heat exchangers is compromised. If the rear door is opened for rack maintenance, or conditioned water supply to the door is stopped, the rack heat load is sent out into the room and must be handled by room air conditioning. This will occur until the conditioned water supply is restored.  Providing floor or ceiling tile cutouts or protective coverings to avoid tripping hazards on non-raised floors as part of hose management. Water control and conditioning of the secondary cooling loopIt is very important that the water that is being supplied to the heat exchanger meet the requirements that are described in this section. Otherwise, system failures might occur over time, as a result of any of the following problems:Leaks due to corrosion and pitting of the metal components of the heat exchanger or the water-supply system.  Buildup of scale deposits inside the heat exchanger, which can cause the following problems:A reduction of the ability of the heat exchanger to cool the air that is exhausted from the rack. Failure of mechanical hardware, such as a hose quick-connect coupling. Organic contamination, such as bacteria, fungi, or algae. This contamination can cause the same problems as described for scale deposits. The water that is used to fill, refill, and supply the heat exchanger must be particle-free deionized water or particle-free distilled water with appropriate controls for avoiding these issuesMetal corrosion Bacterial fouling Scaling The water cannot originate from the primary chilled-water system for the building but must be supplied as part of a secondary, closed-loop system.   Do not use glycol solutions because they can adversely affect the cooling performance of the heat exchanger. Water delivery specifications for secondary loopsThis section describes the various hardware components that make up the delivery system secondary loop that provides the chilled, conditioned water to the heat exchanger. The delivery system includes pipes, hoses, and the required connection hardware to connect to the heat exchanger. Hose management in raised floor or non-raised-floor environments is also described. The primary cooling loop is considered to be the building chilled-water supply or a modular chiller unit. The primary loop must not be used as a direct source of coolant for the heat exchanger for the following reasons: If the supply water temperature is below the room dew point, condensation forms and causes dripping from the door components.  If a leak develops in the door, supply hose, or return hose, a large amount of water is available. Procurement and installation of the components that are needed to create the secondary cooling loop system are required for this design and are your responsibility. See Secondary cooling loop parts and services information for information about suppliers of hoses and cooling distribution units.  The overpressure safety device must meet the following requirements:Comply with .  Perform a search for ISO 4126-1. Be installed so that it is easily accessed for inspection, maintenance, and repair. Be connected as close as possible to the device that it is intended to protect. Be adjustable only wi